 Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. Wow. I will never, ever let you down, that I can tell you. Amazing. And I want to thank Manchester and New Hampshire, they're very special. You remember those primaries? That primary came around and remember what happened during the primary? Trump should come in third or fourth, and we came in easily number one, and that was the beginning. That was an easy one. I want to thank you all. This is incredible and it's great to be back in a state that I love with thousands of hardworking Patriots, who are the heart and soul of America. And that's what you are. We're actually here today to officially launch our campaign to win the great state of New Hampshire in 2020. And I saw some fake polls put out by the fake news media, and it said that I'm tied with three of the other candidates, the Democrats, I'm tied in New Hampshire. I don't think so. One of them has a rally, he's got 100 people. So this holds 12,000 we're full. And we could fill it up four times at least. We could fill it up four times. But I just want to thank you all. I just think it's going to be a tremendous four years. We're going to have a tremendous four years. Can you believe it? We only have a little more than a year to go, where it all started, right? The greatest political movement in the history of our country. And even though we had fake witch hunts on our back and all the other things that we had to go through, we have taken this big beautiful ship, and it's being turned around very quickly. Three years ago, we campaigned across the country on a pledge to make America great again. And that's exactly what we've done. I think we can honestly say it's the greatest slogan in the history of politics in America. Make America great again. So if you don't mind, the other candidates go, they spend millions and millions of dollars on this question that I'm going to ask you. They spend millions. You remember the first slogan from our opponent? That's right, neither do I. Neither does anybody. Nobody remembers. The only thing I remember is the first night I went out after I heard it and I said, see, it's all about her. And they immediately changed it after spending like a million dollars. It's all about her. That didn't work out too well. That slogan wasn't too good. So we have to do this. We have to make a decision. Do you give up the greatest slogan in the history of politics in our country? Make America great again, right? Do we give up make America great again for a new slogan, because look, our country is doing great. We are doing very well with China despite the fact that they want to have you believe in the contrary. All you have to do is say China, how you doing? They're not too happy, they're not too happy. They're losing millions of jobs. The tariffs are working, and they're eating the tariffs by the way. There's no price increase. You know, you gotta talk to these people. The fake news. But do we give up? And by the way, the biggest beneficiary, you know who have been great? Our great farmers have been so incredible because they've been targeted by China, and frankly they've been targeted for a long time, including by incompetent politicians that have run this country for a long time. So we're making up for a lot of lost ground. But do we give up make America great for keep America great? Keep America great. Okay, you ready? Ready? I love this because it's free. And we have all the time in the world, right? Is there anything better than a Trump rally? What about a sleepy Joe Biden rally? Well, he's made some beauties. I sort of hope it's him. I don't mind any of them. You got Pocahontas is rising. We got Kamala. Kamala is falling. You got Beto. Beto is like gone. All right, we'll see what happens. Whoever it is, I don't know that it matters, but whoever it is different, different people. But I don't know, I think sleepy Joe may be able to limp across the finish line. But today they announced that they're going to cut way back on his appearances because he is such a disaster, they're going to have fewer appearances. You've heard that, right? They're going to cut way back on his appearances. Can you believe it? If I ever did that, it would be over. The fake news would get us, but we don't let them get us and it is fake. And today the deputy editor of the New York times was demoted. Isn't that beautiful? All the news that is not fit to print. All the news, the fake failing New York Times. It's really we, it's not me. We're doing it together. They came from the Hills, they came from the mountains, from the rivers, they came from all over the place. And they showed up and they voted like nobody's seen before. And it was 306 to 223, remember? 306. And we won Wisconsin and they said, "Oh, we never thought of that." Got to think about those things. And we won Michigan. And now we have a lot of car companies coming into Michigan, and we have a lot of great farming events happening, really big in Wisconsin. And we have incredible things going on in Pennsylvania. We just opened up a $10 billion plant. We have many of them going up. Many of them, a lot of jobs. In Louisiana, an LNG plant $10 billion. Could never have happened, could never have happened. Pennsylvania would have never happened. They wouldn't have allowed him to frack. So they would've never been able to build it. But what a place that is, it will be open in a little more than a year, but I have to make a decision. It's a big decision. Do we give up the greatest theme, phrase, logo, whatever you want to call it, in the history of politics, risky, for a brand new one because make America great again. We're really sort of there, and we have a little time left. And now we have a group of socialists or communists, could be. They're not far away. The fake news will hit me on that. How dare he say that? But they're not far away, right? They're not far away. 95%. Does anybody want to pay 95% taxes? I don't think so. But I'm not going to go into their plan because as far as I'm concerned, the green new deal is a beautiful thing. No, it's a beautiful thing. We want it to continue onward until about a month before the election. I will let them have it like you've never heard before. I don't want it to change. Too early. It's like Elizabeth Warren. I did the Pocahontas thing. I hit her really hard, and it looked like she was down and out, but that was too long ago. I should've waited. But don't worry. We will revive it. It can be revived. It can be rewritten, right? It will be revived and it can be revived very easily and very quickly. And we're going to have some fun in the state of New Hampshire. Now what do we do, ready? Let me have first make America great again, then keep America great, right? Just applaud like crazy for the one you want to use for this campaign. And there's a possibility we'll use both. There's a possibility we'll use both 'cause I hate like hell to give up the one. Is it a possibility we'll use both? Maybe one a little bit less. Are you ready? So we'll start make America great again, and then keep America. Are you ready? Who's in favor of the campaign theme being make America great again? Who's in favor of our theme being keep America great? Oh, wait a minute. This is your hat. I was going to keep it actually. Thank you. So that's really been the reaction. I've done this before. Big crowds, and it really is keep America great because we have these socialists want to take it away from us. They want to take it away. Because until a couple of days ago, and that'll catch up very quickly, we have no choice. By the way, I never said China was going to be easy, but it's not tough and they want to make a deal. We just spoke to them yesterday. They want to make a deal. They want to make a deal. They have to make a deal. And you know what? It'd be wonderful to make a deal. I don't think we're ready to make a deal. We're taking in billions of dollars in tariffs. And again, China's devaluing their currency. They're pouring out money, the prices haven't gone up. So that means we're taking in billions of dollars. We're not paying for it. And ultimately their devaluations are going to hurt them very badly. They want to make a deal, and they should want to make a deal. But when you listen to the fake news, look at how many there are. I mean, I actually had something today. I had something today. Are we sure that we're in New Hampshire? You know, you have a reputation. I mean, I know it's not true 'cause I know you too well. You have a reputation of being very stayed, very, very elegant, stayed, incredible people. You're not acting it tonight, and that's good. That's a good thing. Wow. We love our country. We have enthusiasm for our country. That's what it is. Before the election, our factories were closing. Hey, who knows it better than you? You're like central casting for the closing of factories. Our jobs were vanishing. Our military was totally depleted. When I took over, our military was sad. We weren't flying half of our planes, they were old. They were tired. Our equipment was tired. Our people weren't tired, though. Our people weren't tired. But everything we had, it was depleted. Now we've rebuilt our military like never before. And all made in the USA, just so you know. And our nation was weakened at home and disrespected abroad. They don't disrespect us anymore, folks. I got NATO to pay an extra hundred billion dollars. They weren't paying. They were delinquent. Many nations were, except for seven. Many nations weren't paying what they were supposed to be paying, so we're supposed to protect them. They kill us on trade. They have all sorts of barriers and everything else. The taxes are really unfair. The tariffs were ridiculous, what they do to us in Europe. And then we protect them. Then they don't pay, and I say, "I'm sorry folks, you have to pay. You have to pay." They were delinquent, they were delinquent. And my biggest fan is secretary General Stoltenberg from NATO. He said until president Trump came along, we were going, boom. They would've been finished very quickly, but I'm tired of paying for other nations anyway, I have to be honest with you. Today, our nation is stronger than ever before. We're now stronger than ever before. You saw we ended the Iran disaster. How about that? We paid them a $150 billion. $1.8 billion in cash. Cash, cash, cash. We got nothing. And they also want to make a deal. China wants to make a deal, and I will tell you Iran wants to make a deal because the sanctions are not good for them. They are not happy. So we'll see how it all turns out. But it's in good hands. It's in good hands. The United States right now has the hottest economy anywhere in the world. We're rebuilding that awesome might that we were just talking about. Our United States armed forces. America is working again. America is winning again, and America is respected again, respected like never before. They respect us again, and you see it. You know, a recent poll came out where it showed that president Obama was more popular in Germany and other places than I am. And I said, of course he's more popular. He's not demanding that they pay for their protection that we provide. He's not doing that. I'm doing that. And in fact, if I was the most popular, I'm not doing my job right. So true. We've created over six million new jobs since the election. If I would have said that during the campaign, those people back there would have been headlines, headlines. More than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Since my election, the number of new businesses starting in the great state of New Hampshire has skyrocketed by almost 25%. And you can't really go by my election. You gotta go by November 9th because the markets have gone through the roof since November 9th. That's the day after I won the election. So I won the election. The markets went up thousands of points. Things started happening. You started doing things that you would've never. Even though I didn't get sworn in until January 20th, but they refused to do that. And let me tell you, if for some reason I wouldn't have won the election, these markets would have crashed. That'll happen even more so in 2020. See the bottom line is I know you like me and this room is a love fest, I know that. But you have no choice but to vote for me because your 401ks down the tubes. Everything's going to be down the tubes, so whether you love me or hate me, you got to vote for me. I had a businessman the other day, one of the most successful guys in the country. I've never liked him, never liked him. He never liked me, I never liked him. I see him in the white house. I said, "What are you doing here?" He said, I'm working to make sure you get elected." I said, "You've got to be kidding. You don't like me. I don't like you. What the hell is this all about?" He said, "That's right. We've had our differences. I haven't liked you, but to be honest with you, Mr. President, I have no choice." I said, "You're right. You're right." First thing I've ever heard him say that I agreed with, he's got no choice. He got no choice. Unemployment in New Hampshire has reached the lowest rate in actually 31 years. But within a very short period of time, it will be the lowest rate in the history of our country. Think of that. You have the best unemployment, you have the most successful state in the history of your state, and in the history of our country. And then you're going to vote for somebody else? Oh, great. Let's vote for Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren. We have the best numbers we've ever had. Let's vote for somebody else. I don't think that's going to happen, folks. I don't think that's going to happen. Only with fixed poles does that happen? Unemployment for African Americans. You've heard me say this many times, and I'm very proud of it. Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans have all reached their lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our county. Wages are rising quickly. Remember when I used to say people have been working two and three jobs making less money than they made 21 years ago? I used to say it all the time. Now I can say for the first time in 20 years, wages are rising, and you know who's the biggest beneficiary? Blue collar workers. My administration is fighting to expand opportunity for citizens of every background and every race, religion, color, and creed. Very important. Because we are all Americans. We all share the same home. We all share the same heart. We all share the same dreams. We are all children of the same Almighty God. But at the very moment when our country should be coming together to enjoy these wonderful blessings, the radical Democrats are trying to tear America apart. They vilify anyone who doesn't share their extreme views. They slander our law enforcement heroes. You see what they're doing with our police that we love. You see what they're doing. Has anyone ever seen anything like the water being thrown on New York's finest? Have you ever seen? And I know a lot of New York's finest. They're not happy, they're not happy. And they are great people. These are great, great, proud people. For that to be allowed to happen is a disgrace. They view everybody as fascist and Nazis. They used the term Nazi. This was a term, you couldn't even use it. Now they use it like on a regular basis. Nazi. He's a Nazi. Think of that. He's a Nazi. You couldn't use it. Now they use it. They accuse our heroic border agents of running concentration camps, and they do an incredible job. And the Democrats don't want to fix the loopholes or asylum. They do an incredible job, our border agents. And they looked down upon the hardworking citizens who truly make our country run. But while the Democrats rage and resist … That guy's got a serious weight problem. Go home, start exercising. Get him out of here please. You got a bigger problem than I do. Got a bigger problem than all of us. Now he goes home and his mom says, "What the hell have you just done?" We are continuing our incredible movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country. There's never been a movement like this. Never. Our movement is built on love, and it is, and we love our family. We love our faith. We love our flag, and we love our freedom, and that's what it's about. And add to that the fact that we love our neighbors and we love our- … the fact that we love our neighbors and we love our country. Together we are all united by one fundamental principal. A nation's first duty must always be to its own citizens, it's own. We've got to take care of our own. You haven't heard that from a politician or a political leader in a long time. It's called America First. It's America First. We're thrilled to be joined tonight by many tremendous Republican leaders and great friends of mine, a man who's doing an incredible job as your governor, because I want to take 100% of the credit for the incredible turnaround of New Hampshire, and I remember it not so long ago, things were not looking good. People were leaving, a lot of bad things were happening, but we have to give him a lot of credit. He's been a great governor, Chris Sununu, with a great father too, great father. With a great father… His father was tough. Chris, your father was so tough. He was for somebody else in the primaries, and then one by one… I won here, I won there, I won there. And then when I won his father got on and I said, "Oh, this guy kills me. He's so tough," and he said, "President Trump will be the greatest of all time. I said, "What happened? What happened?" He went from being the toughest critic to the best there is. So I want to say hello to your father, okay Chris? You'll tell him. Great guy. What a family. What a family. Thank you for Chris. New Hampshire Senate Republican leader, Chuck Morse. Chuck. Thanks, Chuck. New Hampshire House Republican leader, Dick Hinch. Thank you, Dick. Thank you, Dick. Great job. A man who was with me right from the beginning. In fact, he had a meeting at his house. His house has never been the same. His house is a disaster now. Like somebody said he just sold it. But you know what? Because of the Trump economy, I'll bet he sold it for a big, big, fat, beautiful profit. Where is Steve? Steve Stepanek and his wife, who's incredible. Did you make a lot of money on the house? We destroyed the house. This was the beginning. He held some kind of a meeting for me, and he has a nice house, but literally hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people showed up and they destroyed his house. It's never been the same. No wonder you sold it. They finally gave up, and that was four years ago. Anyway, thank you very much both for being here. I appreciate it. What great people. Thank you, Steve. Great job. And I hope the buyer of his house didn't hear that little… Steve. I hope the buyer didn't hear what I just said about your house. He'll cancel… That's all right. You'll sell it for more to somebody else, don't worry. Republican party chair, Ronna McDaniel. You know, Ronna headed up Michigan, and for many, many years nobody won Michigan as a Republican. But I used to complain, I'd go there and I'd say "They're stealing your car business." I'd go for years. In fact, five or six years before I even thought about running, for whatever reason, they named me Man of the Year in Michigan. I said, "How come?" I didn't even understand it myself, but I was named Man of the Year. I wasn't even political. That was years before I did this. But I was always complaining that our car business is being stolen. I mean, it's sort of obvious, right? Mexico now has 32% of our car business. It all left the state of Michigan. We are bringing it back at a level that nobody's ever seen before, our car business. But I went to Michigan and my opponent was told that the Republicans, no way you can win Michigan, or Wisconsin, that you just can't. And we had a campaign manager named Ronna McDaniel, and Ronna wouldn't stop. "Sir, can you be here next week?" I say, "I don't know." Then I leave and she said, "Sir, can you come back in three days?" I said, "I don't know." Then I do it and she said, "How about another time?" And then on election night she said, "Sir," it was six o'clock the day before the election. In other words, just a short while before the election. She calls me, "Sir, can you be here tonight?" I said "Tonight?" And by the way, you know where I was? I was in New Hampshire. That's right. She said, "Sir, can you be here tonight?" I said, "Are you sure?" I started speaking at one o'clock in the morning. Now it's election day. We had 32,000 people show up. It was like this. The crowd was just, they want to see things happen in our country. They love our country. It went crazy. I left and I said, "I don't know why going to lose Michigan. Why would we lose Michigan? Look at this." The opponent went there with Barack Obama and Michelle Obama and she went there much earlier. Prime time, one o'clock, two o'clock in the morning is not exactly prime time. We had 32,000 and they had a tiny little crowd, and I looked at my people and I said, "I know we're not supposed to win the great state of Michigan, but I think we're going to win Michigan" and we won Michigan and we won Wisconsin. We won Wisconsin. Wisconsin was a great victory, and we won Pennsylvania, and we won North Carolina and South Carolina, and we won Florida, and I hate to tell you we should've won New Hampshire. That was taken away. New Hampshire was taken away. It was taken away from us, but we should've. We did great in New Hampshire. We should've won New Hampshire, but that's okay. I'm not holding it against you because it was not your fault. But we had a woman in Michigan and I said, "When it came time to choosing the head of the Republican National Committee," I said, "Who the hell is that woman up in Michigan that got me to keep coming there and explaining that we can't continue to lose our car business?" We have 17 companies now coming back in. "Who is that woman?" And it was Ronna. We put her in charge of the Republican National Committee. The job that she has done is incredible. Thank you. The same with another man, our campaign manager. He started off as a computer genius, and remember when they used to say that the Hillary Clinton campaign is highly sophisticated, highly… She did a lot of bad things folks. 33,000 emails deleted after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress, 33,000. Remember she said it was about her daughter's wedding and yoga classes, 33,000, yes. it was disgraceful. I will tell you this, we now have a great attorney general. A fair guy, a great gentleman. Another man who's here tonight is the world's tallest campaign manager. He is an unbelievable talent. But they were saying about our opponents… I'm not going to mention the name again because we'll never get it finished here, so I'll just say my opponent. Is that better? They were saying how sophisticated her campaign was. Except ours was far more sophisticated, and we had a man that did an incredible job. He's now our campaign manager and he's one of the tallest human beings I've ever seen. His name is Brad Parscale and he is fantastic. It's nice when you don't have to look for anybody. You just look over and you see a guy who's twice as tall as everyone. Great job, Brad. Thank you. How we doing, Brad? Good. Doing good. Got great poll numbers. We've got great poll numbers in a lot of states, Ohio, Iowa. You know Iowa, every week that they campaign our numbers go up. They're winning Iowa. We gave them ethanol, which is very important. A lot of things for Iowa, but every week we seem to be going up in Iowa because they're campaigning in Iowa. Wherever they go, our numbers go up. Somebody's going to have to explain that one to me someday, but we like it. A man who's a friend of mine who was the greatest mayor in the history of New York City. Stand up, Rudy. Stand up, Rudy. Rudy Giuliani. Man, he did a job in the first year. I've never seen anything like it. New York was crime infested. We had problems. We had problems like nobody would believe. Rudy went in there and he did the job and people loved him for it. It wasn't like, "Oh gee, he's a horrible person." People loved Rudy Giuliani. He was a great, great mayor. So thank you, Rudy, for being here. The first person that I put on on the campaign, he was driving me wild. He said, "I'm saying you can win, sir. You can win. I'm telling you, you can win." He loves this state. He's from this state. He said, "You can win, sir. I'm just telling you." I had him on for month after month. He'd come drive me crazy. He'd say, "You can win, you can win, you can win." And finally we said, "Let's give it a shot." And I had Corey, I had Hope, I had just a couple of people. We had a rather lean and mean staff. But Corey Lewandowski loves your state, loves New Hampshire. He was the first one that talked about us possibly winning the whole big ballgame. He's tough and he's smart and I'm hearing he's thinking about running for the Senate from New Hampshire. There we go. I think he'd be tough to beat. I'll tell you one thing, he'll go into Washington and he's going to have you in mind. He's going to do a job if he does do it, so we'll see what happens. He hasn't made up his mind yet, but he would be fantastic. I guess it's something you go back and you talk to your family, you talk to your wife and you make a decision. They're all saying, "Are you going to support him?" I said, "I don't know if he's running." So Corey, let us know please, if you don't mind. Let us know. Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker, pro jobs, pro family, pro growth, and 100% pro American. For decades and decades the permanent politicians in Washington pursued the very opposite. They sold out our workers. You see it. You know it better than any place. When I talk about the horrors of NAFTA, the horrors of trade deals… I mean, I'm sorry to tell you this, I usually refer to New Hampshire. Nobody took it worse than new England and nobody took it worse than New Hampshire. Now, here's the good news. I would never let that happen again and Chris will never let that happen again. Is there a doctor, please? Doctor in the house? Thank you. Doctor in the house. Please, doctor, please. Thank you very much. Take your time. Yeah, take your time. Thank you. Take your time, fellas. Plenty of time. You know, people got here two and a half days ago, many of these people in the front, right? Two and a half days ago, a lot of these people, so you can understand. It's pretty tough. Thank you. Thank you. That's okay. These are great people. These are great people that love our country, just remember that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Pretty good. Pretty good. So our politicians shipped away our jobs, shed our sovereignty, surrendered our dignity, and saddled our nation in one foreign debacle after another, and we're still here. He just said it. We're still here, you better believe it, and we're here stronger than ever before we're here. But all of that ended the day that I took the oath of office, the American people are in charge of their country again. We cut a record number of job-killing regulations that were strangling our country. We cut more regulations in two and a half years than any other president in their full terms. Four years, eight years, or in one case more than that, cut more than anybody. To get relief to working families we passed the largest package of tax cuts and tax reforms in the history of our country. You're making a lot more money. You're making a lot more money and you see it and you know it because you see it in your paycheck every week. We ended the last administration's cruel war on American energy and we are delivering a policy of American energy independence like you've never seen before. In fact, if you look at the straits where we're having all of the problems, you look at the straits, number one, they're not touching our ships, they're not playing with our ships. They're taking them from this country, from that country, from that country. But you know what? Very importantly, we have very few ships going there anymore because we don't need that oil and gas. The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. Every leading Democrat has pledged abolish the American oil, coal, and natural gas industries that are fueling our economic boom. Can you imagine this? We're sitting on great wealth. They want to take it away from us, and the alternatives don't have the power. They don't have the power. They want wind, wind. Wind is oh so beautiful, as long as you don't have to stare at a windmill and your house goes down in value like to nothing. Steve, if you had a windmill anywhere near your house you would've gotten one third of the price you got, Steve. That's true, by the way. Steve's too smart to let that happen. We won't let them take it away from you. We are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that shattered New Hampshire and your factories. They shattered your communities and they shattered American power and American prestige all around the globe. New Hampshire lost one in four manufacturing jobs following NAFTA and China's entrance into the Organization, two of the worst deals ever in the history of our world, not just our country. Election after election, politicians came to your state pretending to have the courage to stand up for the American worker, then they went to Washington and let other countries push them around, and special interests, buy them off and steal your jobs and take your companies. That's what happened. Me, I don't care about their campaign contributions. It doesn't matter to me, folks. We want to do a job. We want to do a great job, and we're setting records, and you know who's sending us the money? The small donors. Well, we have big donors, but we have small donors are sending us the money for the election. Pretty amazing. That's not supposed to happen to a Republican, but it's happening to this Republican and it's happening to you. Every vow that politicians made was broken, every hope was dashed, and every promise turned into a total betrayal of New Hampshire and of our country. But in this administration, we have something those sell-out politicians could only dream of. It's called strength and commitment. We don't play games. We don't play games. After years and years of building up other countries we are finally building up our country, standing up for our jobs, our workers, and standing up for our dignity. The forgotten men and women of America will never ever be forgotten again. You were forgotten. The last administration with sleepy Joe and Obama tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated, worse than NAFTA, worse than WTO. It was called the Trans-Pacific Partnership. It would have been a disaster. TPP would have gutted the American auto industry. It would have been in shambles. Our auto industry is coming back so strong. It would've gutted, would've destroyed the industry. But in my first week in office I proudly withdrew the United States from that job-destroying catastrophe. We're imposing beautiful well-placed tariffs, money comes in, on foreign countries that cheat our workers, steal our jobs, and break all the rules, I'm sorry. And by the way, they've been changing and charging tariffs on us for years. We have countries that charge us 100%, 200%, 297% in the case of Canada with your farm products. We're not going to stand for it, and man, did we turn things around and we've just started. If companies don't want to pay a tariff, I have one simple solution. Come make your product in America. Come make your product in New Hampshire. Zero tariffs. Zero. No tariff. Together we're restoring this nation's industrial might and we are doing it with American iron, American aluminum, and American steel. We're doing it steel. Steel industry is high. They were dumping steel all over. They were destroying our companies. US steel now, all of them, they're all expanding. the steel industry is back. It's doing great. We're opening up mines in Minnesota, the great state of Minnesota. They have magnificent mines that have the best iron ore in the world and President Obama closed them down. Maybe we can get Representative Omar from Minnesota to open it up, but I don't think so. She'll open them up. I don't think so. Representative Omar, that's another one. We're replacing NAFTA with the brand new USMCA. That's Mexico and Canada. Great deal. The USMCA will create countless jobs for farmers and manufacturers all across the state. We need Congress to pass the USMCA immediately. We'll make it a bipartisan deal. We don't even want credit. The unions benefit. The non-unions benefit. Everybody benefits. It brings it back to fairness and it makes it very hard for our companies to leave our countries, go to Mexico or Canada. We lose all our jobs. We lose all our taxes. We end up with empty factories and plants. It makes it almost impossible. We're not going to have that. That was my one rule that I had to have. It's going to be very, very hard for companies to do that. I've also taken the toughest ever action to stand up to China's chronic trade abuses. Earlier this month, the US government officially labeled China for the first time ever a currency manipulator, another promise kept. While others allowed China to freely loot the US economy, $500 billion a year, not million, not million, billion with a B. We've made it clear that the theft of American jobs and American wealth is over. Yet today, the Wall Street Journal editorial board and some others continue to publish foolish articles that demonstrate that they understand nothing about trade or business. Nothing. They advocate only economic surrender. They actually say, "Go to China, take off the tariffs, make a deal." I lose all the cards we take off the tariffs. We don't have any cards. Think of it. They say "Go to Europe.". By the way, the European union is worse than China, just smaller. It treats us horribly. Barriers, tariffs, taxes, and we let them come in. It's worse than China. Many of us come from there. I do. That's what it's got going. That's about it. They treat us really badly, and many others, many, many others. India tariffs us probably higher than any nation anywhere in the world. We have tariffs of 100% on products and much more than that. India. So we're working on all of them. I called Prime Minister Modi. I said, "Mr. Prime Minister, it's not fair. We've got to change, we've got to change, we've got to change," and we're talking to them very seriously. We're talking to a lot of places. But when the Wall Street Journal comes out and they say, " No, no, take the tariffs. Go and talk to China." They've been trying to talk to them for 25 years. But actually, you know what? They really haven't. The fact is the leaders that were in my position, they didn't do a damn thing. They didn't talk. They didn't talk. Past leaders followed the terrible advice of these editorial boards that are frankly totally inexperienced in business, I guess, and our industries were utterly decimated. Globalism enriches foreign countries at our expense. Globalism. I love our country. I'm the President of the United States of America. I'm not the president of the the world. As long as I'm president, America will never bow to a foreign nation like we were for so many years. As we restore our prosperity, we are also restoring public safety. We are fighting to reduce violent crime. You see so much, and over the last 25 years so much crime, and ensure that every American can live in safety and peace. And yet with all that you see, we've had one of the best years of crime prevention that we've ever had. It wouldn't seem that way, but it is one of the best years because those gentlemen that we just saw, the law enforcement, they do a great job. You've been reading about this a lot lately. We are working very hard to make sure we keep guns out of the hands of insane people and those who are mentally sick and shouldn't have guns. But people have to remember, however, that there is a mental illness problem that has to be dealt with. It's not the gun that pulls the trigger. It's the person holding the gun. Years ago, many cities and states, I remember it so well, closed mental institutions for budgetary reasons. They let those people out onto the street. You probably have your examples up here. I can tell you in New York they closed so many of them and they let really seriously mentally ill people out on the streets, and you see plenty of them today, even today. We're going to have to give major consideration to building new facilities for those in need. We have to do it. And at the same time, we will be taking mentally deranged and dangerous people off of… … Mentally deranged and dangerous people off of the streets so we won't have to worry so much about that. The big problem. We don't have those institutions anymore and people can't get proper care. They're seriously ill people and they're on the streets. We can't make it harder for good, solid law abiding citizens to protect themselves. We will always uphold the right to self defense and we will always uphold the second amendment. We will. So important. One of the most powerful promises I made to the people of this state was to confront the opioid and drug epidemic. I used to go around New Hampshire more than any state and you'd say, "Sir, the state is infested." You said, "Sir, we'll like a drug den." You tell me. And I didn't really see it. And then I met with the police officers and fire departments and all the people that do. And you just seem to have a bigger problem. And by the way, the wall is being built. That's- That's going to stop a lot of it. The wall is being built. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. It's being built. You know, we have the fake news. You know about that, where they … A wall that's lying on the ground in a very important section. So we pick up the wall, it's in pieces. I mean literally it's gone and we build a brand new 30 foot steel and concrete wall and the fake media said, "He didn't build a wall. That's just renovation. There was no wall, it's lying on the ground." People walk right over and it's rotted, rusted, gone. We take it away. We put a brand new wall up. They give me no credit. You know why? Because they're fake news. That's why. We're building a lot of walls. The Army Corps of Engineers is doing a great job. They're doing a great job. Since I took office, we've attacked the challenge with everything we have. We have secured a record $6 billion in new funding. Opioid. We vastly increase the distribution of overdose reversing drugs, which are pretty amazing things. We've given them to your police department, your fire department, pretty amazing. We have reduced the total amount of opioids prescribed by 34%. The department of justice has prosecuted more than 3000 defendants in opioids related cases. And our public awareness campaign about the terrible suffering that drugs inflict has already reached 58% of all young Americans. I said that you have to show them. We're doing ads beautiful ads. Shows them, and you've seen them. I don't even want to describe them. They're brutal. But we're doing ads on television and papers about how bad it is for children so they can see it. Because the greatest thing we can do is not get people started on drugs, right. Not get them started. It's hard to get off. You know, we can get them off and we're doing it and it's been done. But it's hard to get off. If they never start. It's real easy. It's real easy. So we're trying to get young kids, you won't see the fruits of this labor for a little while because it takes a while. But we're really, we are working so hard on advertising and promotions to tell young kids, children how bad drugs are, how dangerous they are, how horrible they are, how they destroy your brain, how they do so many bad things. And they're really very tough ads. They're hard hitting ads. And I think they're having a big impact. You'll see over time you'll see. Over time you'll see. But we still have much work to do. But as a result of these efforts, last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths in 31 years. That's pretty amazing. And at the center of America's drug crisis is the border crisis. Vast quantities of deadly narcotics are being smuggled across the border including meth, cocaine, heroin and fentanyl. And as part of my trade deal with China, it's been very important. And President Xi said he's going to do it. So far he has not done it. But I said, "You have to stop sending us fentanyl." Have to. "And you have to criminalize in China the making of fentanyl." And so far he has not come through, but I think he will. You'll know, you'll know. Yet Democrats want to open borders and Republicans want strong borders. That you're difference. One wants open borders. Who can even think of an open border? Think of it? Even though many people that come into our country are wonderful people, they're are still coming in illegally. They're not coming in through merit. But what about the bad ones? We have serious, serious criminals that want to come in, and if we had open borders they would be flowing in like you've never seen before. Democrats want open borders, they don't mind crime. We do mind crime and that's the way it is. Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities. Last year alone sanctuary cities declined more than 17,000 requests from federal authorities to hand over criminal aliens already in their custody. In other words, 17,000 criminal aliens were released by these cities directly into US communities. You don't understand even what the hell are they doing? What are they doing? 17,000. Republicans believe our city should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens. We will always support the amazing heroes of ICE and Border Patrol, and we will always support law enforcement. Every Democrat candidate also wants to give illegal immigrants free welfare. Republicans believe public benefits should be protected for truly needy Americans, not for illegal aliens. And we should reduce our taxes and many other things with all of that money that we're talking about. We need to elect a strong Republican majority to end sanctuary cities. Stop human traffickers, stop drug smugglers and adopt an immigration system that puts the needs of American workers and families first. It's also time for Democrats to join with us to protect the sacred integrity of our elections by supporting voter ID, voter identification. It's incredible. They're constantly saying, "Oh, we need to protect them." But they're not looking for that. They're not looking for that. We say, "What about voter ID? In other words, you have a picture, you have to go up. What about voter ID?" That they don't want to do, but we need voter ID. The Democrat party has never been farther outside the mainstream. Where do they come from? You know, you say you want low taxes, good education, strong military, strong borders. You want to have safe homes. You want a house, you want low interest rates, you've got low … Hey, you got low interest rates. The lowest ever. Got low rates, it's a good time to refinance your house, by the way. Great time. You got everything, and then you see these people they're against … They have no idea what they're doing. They have no idea what they're against. Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of healthcare that would raid Medicare and destroy the private health insurance plans of millions of American families that they love. My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you. The individual mandate is gone. The most unpopular part of Obamacare, and we almost have Obamacare gone. We're close. We would have had it before, but we had a vote that was a little bit surprising. I'm sure none of you knew who that vote was. We had it done, repealed and replaced. But it's going to happen and I think it's going to actually be in the end, actually better. You watch. So we got rid of the individual mandate, which was the most unpopular part of Obamacare. And we're running it better. You know, I had a political decision. Do I make it great? Alex Azar our secretary, do rerun it well and sort of say, "Hey, we run it well." Or do we run it badly and have everybody upset? We said, we got to run it well, but it's still much too expensive. It's lousy healthcare. But we got rid of the worst part of it. Individual mandate, individual mandate, where you have the privilege of buying the right not to have to pay for expensive insurance. that's no good health insurance. And we won't … And you got to remember this. Republicans, and I speak for every one of them, we will always protect pre-existing conditions. We're going to protect, always. Right, got to do it. Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in 51 years. The only decline in 51 years. We have launched a historic initiative to require price transparency, empowering you to choose the lowest price for yourself and for your family. Believe it or not, you didn't have the right to go in and price your drugs. Who could even believe this? I wonder if big pharma had something to do with that. So we're going to have transparency. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mothers womb. Right up, up till … Right up until the moment of birth. And in the case of the Virginia governor, he's having a rough, rough time. In his case, the baby is born, and then he goes to talk to the mother. The doctor talks to the mother. The baby is now born, wrapped as he said, and then they decide whether or not to execute the baby. Who would believe that. That is why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred, the gift of God. Hard to believe isn't that. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion and socialism. The Republican party is the party of freedom. We are the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream and I'm fighting for you each and every day. So importantly we have confirmed more than 140 federal judges. Within 90 days it will be 179 federal judges. Thank you very much President Obama. Thank you very much. I don't know what happened to them, but I came to office and I had 138 judges that were not appointed by President Obama. So I say, thank you Mr. President, very good and they'll say he was a great president. Oh, the fake news. He was a great president. If he was a great president how come he left me 138 judges to appoint when everybody says that's the single most important thing a president of the United States has to do. Great president. He was great. He was a great president. And these judges will apply the law as written, including we appointed two great Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. And to help patients with life threatening illnesses we also pass something I'm so proud of, 44 years they couldn't get it passed, right to try. You can use our newest, our best medicines. Incredible. What's happening. I'm so proud of that. And this from forever, five decades. We pass for our great veterans VA choice and VA accountability. And one of our great friends was a veteran who's been with me in New Hampshire. I don't know where you are. Where's our guy? Where is he? So, Al. So, I walk in I said, hello. He's been with me from the beginning. He wasn't with … He liked Trump. And I came in. He said, sir, he's a great veteran. He said, "Sir, I have cancer. And sir, I went into the vet. They were very, very late. They had problems. I'm not blaming them, but they gave me the right to go out and get a great cancer surgeon." He had his operation. You look much better than you did three years ago Al, much better. Much better. VA choice, right Al. VA choice. Great story. Thank you very much, and thank you for your loyalty. He's been to every rally I ever gave a New Hampshire right from the beginning. I got so tired of looking at him. He'd always be here. Now he's … Look at him, now he's sitting in very good. That's good. But I appreciate that story. I appreciate. VA choice just makes sense, right? Doesn't it make sense? We've achieved record funding for the United States military. $716 billion, $700 billion and $738 billion. And it's almost completely rebuilt. Including, and we hope to God we never have do use it. We have the finest, most powerful nuclear capability anywhere on the face of the earth. And I hope to God we never have to use it. We're investing in the future of human space flight. And someday soon American astronauts will plant the stars and stripes on the surface of Mars. I told my guys at NASA, you know, NASA, when we took it over, it was exhausted. The runways and the grounds had all weeds growing through the cracks in the concrete. You wouldn't recognize it now. It's beautiful. It's the best place anywhere on earth. And I also said, though, you know, I hear all these rich guys for some reason, they love space. So they're rich. I said, let them send the rockets up. What the hell do we have to do it? Right? So I see Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, they're putting rockets up. I think it's great. And they pay us rent. They use our facility. That's great. But we're also doing it, and NASA has some of the greatest plans we've ever had. These are great people, great scientists. But we also let the private sector put up rockets. The one which recently went up and you see the engines coming back down and they coming … There's no wings, no nothing. It's almost like, what are we watching is this fiction? And they come down and they save all of the propellants. All of the, really the most expensive parts. They're able to save it by bringing it back right to where it took off. Who would think they could do this? I never saw this before six months ago, but they're doing it now more and more. They're saving a lot of the most important and expensive parts of rockets. So we have a lot of rich guys paying us a lot of rent. But we're also doing it ourselves. To protect America's security. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And just three months ago, we also recognized the Golan Heights as being a part of and protected by Israel. For years you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of New Hampshire. Thank you. And you must never forget the 2020 election right around the corner. 2020 right around the corner. And it's about one thing. You know what the one thing is, you. It's about you. It's about your family. It's about your future. And it's about the fate of your country. So when we ran together last time, we said the most importantly we had to turn it around. This country was going bad. You see what happened to Venezuela with socialism? Venezuela 15 years ago was one of the richest countries. Now they don't have water, they don't have food, they don't have anything. And this was one of the richest nations in the world. They don't have anything. We're working on it. We're helping people, but it's very sad. It's never going to happen to us because we will never ever be a socialist nation. Ever. No matter what label they use, a vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction … The destruction of the American dream. We have a dream. It's a great dream. This the destruction of the American dream. We begin this campaign tonight with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for the people of New Hampshire and for the people of America. Together we will lift millions more citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. Millions and millions of people. With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration. We will enact trade deals that are already happening that ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase made in the USA. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, ending the AIDS epidemic in America and finding new cures for childhood cancer. Something I never thought I'd be able to say, within one decade the AIDS epidemic in the United States will be gone. Think of that. Did you ever think you were going to hear that? No. Did you ever think you were going to hear that? The work they've done on AIDs is incredible. That's an incredible thing. When they told me that, it's just shattering. It just, it breaks your heart what's happened. But think of it in 10 years, the AIDS epidemic will be eradicated. So great. Who thought that was going to be happening. Who thought I'd be able to get to say that so early in what we're doing together. We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious Liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together. There is one America we will support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States. We'll stand with the incredible men and women of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. Through every day and every challenge our hearts speak to the words of the New Hampshire state motto, live free or die. We are fighting for every American mom and dad who wants to protect this land of Liberty for their precious, beautiful children. We are fighting for every young boy and girl who deserves to grow up in a nation of builders and dreamers, pioneers and patriots, and we are fighting for every citizen of the greatest Republic on the face of this earth. Every day my presidency, we will never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us. The brave this beautiful, strong, proud, and free future. It belongs to us. It's up to us. We control our own destiny. And with your help, your devotion and your drive. We are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one great movement. One people, one family and one glorious nation under God. And together we are making America wealthy again. We are making America strong again. We are making America safe again. And we are making America great again. Thank you. New Hampshire. Thank you. Thank you.Wow, that's a big crowd. This is a big crowd. Thank you very much, everybody. Hello to Swanton and a load to Toledo. I'm thrilled to be back in Ohio with thousands of hardworking, loyal, great American patriots … days from now. Can you believe it, 43 days? We go to again win Ohio. I understand from Bob Paduchik, you know Bob? That we're going to win it by more than we did. Whether we win at nine, we won by nine points. I just came into that big, beautiful place. It's got more televisions in any plane in history. They've got televisions and closets and bathrooms on the floor, on the ceilings. I just saw that we're tied in Ohio. I don't think so … President Trump may have a slim lead in Ohio? They're not even campaigning in Ohio, come to think of it. Now, they're fake polls. They're almost as fake as the writers themselves. They're all fake. Remember last time they said, "No, he's going to lose Ohio." We won by nine points. So, we had seven swing states last time. President Trump is going to go home early, but it wasn't president at that time, it was just Donald Trump. He will go home early. We did. That we went home early as victors, but we had nine states. They had one of the crazy papers, New York Times. They hired that guy. They paid him millions because he never predicted wrong. He was wrong. I don't know if they had a contract where they could fire him, but they hired this guy. We had nine states. I was down at all of them on the day of election. I was going to lose all nine, and then guess what? I won every one of them. Fake polls. They're fake polls. Then we have a crowd like this. I don't know. Look, the cameras, are you turning around? These guys are bad people. I swear. They never turn the cameras around, ever. Turn them around. Turn them around. They never tell, look at them. It's just like a bunch of stiffs. Real stiffs. Why don't you turn the cameras around for once? You look back there, you can't see it. There's got to be, feels like Madison Square Garden on the ground except we have more people. Oh boy, it's always tough. You know, we go through this all the time. We're always asking them, look at these crowds. I mean, as far, you can't see it. You have this prime territory, like you should be in the real estate business. Now, as far as the eye can see back there, the cameras don't, they don't get it. You only hear it from the sound. I go home. I say to the first lady, "Did you see that crowd we had tonight in Ohio?" She goes, "No, no. They just keep it on your face." That includes Fox. They just keep it here, right here. They don't want to show. You know what they don't know and what they don't get is that showing this kind of activity is a good thing for them. It's positive for their ratings. It's really a good thing, but they don't want to do it, but I give up on it. You know what you do? You hear it because you can't have … You know when sleepy Joe Biden, he's got the circles. You knowthose big circles? You know why he has the circles? He's got four of them, because they can't … I mean, think of it. He is a guy who's failed every time he ran. We called him 1% Joe and now he's shot and he got their nomination. How the hell does that work out? How does that work out? But he's got the circles. He got like four, sometimes he has six because that's a good way of saying, if you don't have any people, just put them in the circle and he's practicing the science. Now it doesn't work out, but we're going to win four more years in the White House. We're doing things that nobody's ever done before. We're doing what nobody's ever done, and thank you for being here. I wish we could move the press back further, if you want to know the truth. As our nation mourns the loss of Supreme Court Justice … Thank you everybody. Thank you. So is our nation mourns the loss of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, I will soon announce a nominee for the United States Supreme Court. They say it's the most important thing a president can do. I don't know. I think military, maybe. We rebuilt your military two and a half trillion dollars. Great. We will fill that seat. It's going to go quickly. Probably announced the person. I don't want to make the men too angry. It will be a woman. Is that okay? I don't want to have a problem with men. They'll say Trump is doing very poorly with men. You listen. How's he doing? Well, he's doing very poorly with men, with women. He's doing very poorly with the black community, Hispanic community. Then you have the election night doing very poorly with those with diploma, without diploma, college, PhDs. What's he doing well? Oh no, it's going to be a very short night. Then they say Donald Trump is the projected winner by a lot. They say, well, what happened is he did very well with women did very well with men, diplomas. He did well with African American community. By the way, we are doing really well with the African American community, with the Hispanic community. We're doing well with women. We're doing very well. We're doing well with suburbia, suburbia. I ended a regulation that will destroy suburbia. If Biden got in, they will destroy the suburbia. We call it suburbia of the world and we love it. I know it well, Westchester County, the suburban, they sometimes, if you say suburban housewife, you're in deep trouble. So what you do is you say suburban women, they love me. You know why? They want security and they don't want projects being right next to their house. That's okay. They don't want it. By the way, that includes minorities. Because 29% to 30% of these suburban communities are minorities. That includes them. They don't want that. They want safe communities. They want great communities. They don't want to lose the American dream. It's very simple. I got rid of the regulation from Obama- Biden that was destroying suburbia. Okay? Destroying it. I think suburbia has got to wake up because if they get in, you know who's in charge? You know who's in charge of the program? Cory Booker, Cory Booker. Cory Booker. So, I think the suburban women and suburban men and husbands and wives and everybody, you better get smart because you're not going to have your dream very much longer if they get in. If I get in, you've got it. You've also got your second amendment if I get it. In 2018, we expanded the Senate majority. Remember, they said, first of all, I wasn't running. I wasn't running. It makes a difference. Wait you see what happens. We're going to take back the house. We're going to get rid of this crazy Nancy Pelosi. Kevin McCarthy's done a great job. We're going to take back the house. People are so tired of her. People are so tired. Did you hear today? The latest. So, they impeached me for perfect phone call. Perfect. It was a perfect phone call. Now they want to impeach me again if I nominate somebody as I'm constitutionally obligated to do, to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States. Go ahead and I want them to do that. I want them to do that. We will. We will. We will. If he puts forth a highly qualified candidate, we will impeach him. Well, I said, "Well, I'm the only guy in the world that could get impeached for trying to fill a seat in the Supreme." So, we're going to put up our nominee who's going to be outstanding. We're looking at five incredible jurists, five incredible people, women that are extraordinary in every way. I mean, honestly, it could be anyone. I mean, we're going to be announcing it on Friday or Saturday. Again, they say it's the most important thing and think of it. So in a single term, single term, by the end of our term, we will have nominated and had confirmed I think it'll end up being over 300 federal judges and hopefully three Supreme Court justices. Think of that. Three. Some presidents, they never get any. They last a long time, a lot of presidents get none. We've had three. It's blowing their minds. It's blowing their minds, but for the people of Ohio, this is what you want. So, it looks like we're going to have three and it's going to be very exciting. It's exciting even from me. I'm going to look forward to it. Probably Saturday, we will announce the nominee and it's somebody that you're going to have great respect for, great respect. Thank you. Big stuff. That's a big thing. They set the course of our country for many years to come, whether it's on life or the second amendment or so many other things, they set the whole course of the country. Very important position, the most important. Joe Biden has refused to list the names of his potential justices because he knows they're too extreme to withstand any form of public review. If Joe Biden and the Democrats take power, they will pack the Supreme Court with far left radicals who will unilaterally transform American society far beyond recognition. They will mutilate the largest figure the constitution and oppose a socialist vision from the bench that could never pass at the ballot box. So, they don't want to show the judges because the only ones that he can put in are far left radicals. If he does something even towards left of center, which would be acceptable, I guess, we have no choice. If he did that, he would lose the left. So, he's going to have to put in radicals. So he doesn't want to show who his judges are. I've shown a list, I have a double list, about 45 from which I will only pick, but he doesn't want to do that, because if you found out who he was going to pick, he would be unelectable. Hopefully, he's going to be unelectable anyway. We're going to find out. So, he wouldn't be able to survive a Joe Biden. You wouldn't be able to survive. We've been calling it socialism. I don't think it's socialism. I think it's a step beyond what they're talking about. You look at Portland, you look at Chicago, you look at New York, you look at Baltimore and Oakland. These are Democrat run cities that are horrible in crime. There's no law and order, no cash bail, no anything. You know what? The Republican cities are running great. They're running great. So, we're going to get it all changed around. We went into Minneapolis, we solved the problem like you wouldn't believe. What did it take? You saw it. What did that take? I would say probably 30 minutes. Right? They should have called us in about seven days earlier. How about the reporter? He gets up there, behind him is a burning city. I never saw anything like it. He's saying, "There are really no protests here. This is very friendly." We call this a friendly protester because you're not supposed to have political rallies. You're not supposed to have anything. The only thing you can have is thousands of people running down a street burning stores, looting, doing what … That's okay, because that's protesting, but we'll call this a friendly protest, but your children will be robbed of their future and the damage will endure for generations to come- … future the damage we'll endure for generations to come. We have to win. This is the most important election in the history of our country in my opinion. And a lot of that's got to do with the fact that we're going to have one extra, but we didn't think this was going to happen. But I used to say just a week ago, "We're going to have one, two, three, four, and maybe even five, the next President, and the Supreme Court is going to be a tremendous factor." A lot of people said that's the reason I won so easily in the Electoral College last time. 306, 306 to 223. "He will not get to 270." Remember? "He will not get to 270. This will be a short evening for Donald Trump. Oh, good riddance. Thank God we got rid of him. Oh, this is going to be great." And then that problem happened. "Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio." Remember the one, she was crying? She was crying. "Donald Trump has won Ohio." But it wasn't winning Ohio, it was by the margin. "Where the hell?" he said, "Where did this margin come from?" They opened the polls. Then they closed the polls. Normally you have to wait hours, unless it's a total runaway. And they said, "Ah, the polls and the doors are closed in Ohio. Donald Trump has won." And they go, "Oh my God. But wait a minute. He won by nine points. What the hell's going on over here?" Then they said, "Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. Donald Trump has won the state of Georgia. Donald Trump has won North Carolina, South Carolina." Remember that? Was that the most exciting evening, really? Remember? And it's not Donald Trump. It's you. It's all of us. They use the name Donald Trump. It's all of us have won. And this one's going to be even better because nobody has done, and then don't even challenge it, the fake news, nobody has done in three and a half years what we've done. We've rebuilt our military. Two and a half trillion dollars. We've taken care of our vets. We have choice, we have accountability. We can fire people now when they're not treating our vets right. We couldn't do that before. They could treat our vets terribly. We have accountability. Nobody has done what we've done for our vets. 91% approval rating at the VA. 91%, the highest ever. So nobody's done it, and that's why I think this is going to be the most important of all. I used to say, "Well, I don't know. How does it compare to 2016?" I just gave that up. This is the most important election. You know why? Two reasons. Number one, that's over with, the hell with it. The hell with it. But the truth is it's got a seat in, and we have a lot of new things including additional, substantial, middle income tax cuts and other tax cuts, and tremendous regulation cuts. And we're finishing up with our military. We're building Space Force. The wall is going incredibly. You remember the wall? They don't talk about the wall anymore, the fake news. Once we started building it, if you think that was easy to build the wall, we had an entire party that would die for the fact, and I made a terrible mistake in the wall, instead of telling you, "We're going to build a wall, we're going to build a wall," the Democrats formed, it was very tough, but I got it. I'm a real estate developer. You can always get money. You learn we have a lot of little pockets. We had a lot of big pockets. But the military was great. The Army Corps of Engineers were great. So we're up to 330 miles of wall. We're doing 10 miles a week, and we're going to be finished with the wall very soon. And it's exactly the wall, the little more expensive wall, they want like nice, expensive, but exactly what border patrol wanted. We're building them the exact wall that they want. We can't give them any excuses. We can't give them any excuses. But it's true, they used to talk about the wall all the time because they never thought I'd be able to get a bill. Once I got it going, got it built, I got the financing, we won a lot of lawsuits, by the way, we won a lot of lawsuits. They sued us. Pelosi was suing us. Congress was suing us. The Senate was suing us. We won a lot of lawsuits. Once it was obvious that we won and we started building, they never talk about the wall anymore. And I made a terrible, terrible mistake because I had to work my ass off to get that thing built. You have no idea. You have no idea. You have no idea. But I should have said, the mistake, I should have said when I talked to these big crowds, and the crowds are getting bigger, there's more enthusiasm now than we ever had four years ago, but I should have said, instead of, "We will build a wall," I kept, "We will build a wall," place would go crazy, I should have said, "We will not build the wall. Under no circumstances, will we build a wall," the Democrats would have given us all the money we wanted. It's true. It's true. And then they would have said, "See, he didn't keep his campaign promise." These people are sick. The Biden nominated justices will shred our Second Amendment, eliminate the right to self defense, and allow the government to confiscate your privately owned firearms. You know that. Put in other language, they will end your Second Amendment. And they will do that. By the way, if I wasn't here, you wouldn't have a Second Amendment right now. That would be gone. I hate to say it. I'm the only thing standing between you and chaos, I'm telling you. And Second Amendment and all of the other things. Biden's justices will remove the words "under God" from the Pledge of Allegiance. Did you see that? Did you see it? They said, "No, we'd never remove. And I saw it, they're doing the Pledge of Allegiance. And I said, "Oh, it must be a typo." They left the words "under God" out of the Pledge of Allegiance, the Democrats. And I said, "Oh, there's a typo. Typo, they made a mistake. What a stupid mistake. Can you believe it? That guy's in big trouble. What a stupid mistake." And then I heard it a second time. They did the same mistake. That's what they're doing. They're going to take God out of everything just like they want to knock down the statue of George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson. That's never happening. It's never happening. A lot of these Democrats states, you see it, the churches are closed. They don't want our churches to open. You can have a riot where you kill people in the streets. 25,000 people don't have to wear a mask, nothing. They can march down the streets, step on each other's face, they can do whatever the hell they want, that's okay. But you can't go to church. They have ideas, they have plans, and it's never happening with me as your President. That I can tell you. And you see it, they want to tear down crosses from public spaces. You see it. Since I signed a little law, they were ripping down a lot of statues about four months ago, and I said, "Do we have any laws, like old laws when they was strong, when we were smart, when we were tough?" "Sir, we have one, sir." A General came in. "What's the law, General?" "Sir, there was a law from quite a while ago, 10 years in prison." They didn't use the word jail, prison. Prison's a tougher word. I said, "What do you mean, 10 years?" "You get 10 years in prison if you knock down a statue or if you knock down a monument." I said, "General, let me see that sucker, please. Bring that to my office." And we revived it because you can't get that approved by Congress. They would never. Today in Congress, you'd do it, they'll give you half a day in a hotel someplace. So 10 years. So they were having a big march on Washington in two days and I signed this new law. We updated it, and it was 10 years. You get 10 years in prison. You touch, you knock down a monument. And there's no games. This is the old days. This is the days when we had strong laws, when we had real laws, when we had real politicians that knew how to make laws. So here's the thing. So they weren't going to come in, they were actually looking to knock down the statue of a man named Thomas Jefferson. That's not too good. They had obliterated a lot of different things. And so I had a news conference. I announced that I'm signing a law that anybody that knocks down a monument or a statue gets 10 years in jail. And the police in Washington, and we had National Guard, we had Secret Service. We were all ready for them. We were ready for them. And the time came, there's was only a problem, nobody showed up. You know why? 10 years was too much. 10 years was too much. It's amazing the way. Isn't it amazing the way it all works? So instead they burned down Portland. I speak to the Governor. The mayor is hopeless. He's a hopeless, poor guy. They chased him out of his apartment, and he still thinks they're wonderful people. They're burning down his city. But I want to go in there with the National Guard so bad. It would take us 15 minutes to solve the problem. When they heard in Seattle that we were going in, we were going in the next day, the guys just walked away. They left. That was the end of it. We had nothing to do. But they want to ban all prayer in public schools and require taxpayers to fund extreme late term abortion. Biden's justices will erase national borders, they don't want borders, protect sanctuary cities, and compel the unlimited entry of foreign nationals. And if you look at some of these jihadist nations, no thank you. Somebody said, "That's not nice. That's not politically correct." I said, "That's okay." They'll clip all the police departments, free violent criminals, shield foreign terrorists, and declare the death penalty unconstitutional, even for the most depraved mass murderers who kill women and children. That's what they want. They don't want any death penalty. Not for the Boston Bomber, not for anybody. You see the Boston Bomber, they're still trying this guy, what he did to so many lives. He killed people, ruined so many families, ruined so many lives. And by the way, they want the Boston Bomber to be able to vote. You know that. In three and a half years under my administration, we've secured America's borders, rebuilt the awesome power of the United States military, obliterated the ISIS caliphate 100%, fixed our disastrous trade deals, and brought jobs and factories back to the great state of Ohio. I love Ohio. I love Ohio. I don't know what it is. I was told by Bob and some of the Congressmen that are here, we have some great ones, I'm going to introduce them in a second, but I was told that they're not even trying for Ohio. You know why? Because I love you and you love me, and that's the way it is. That's the way it is. Thank you. I love you too. It's very interesting. So somebody in the fake news media did a story yesterday because there's crazy chances going on. They have too about the seat and all that. But there was another chant that's happening at all these rallies. We're having massive rallies. We're in Minnesota. We had a tremendous crowd. Wisconsin, tremendous. Pennsylvania, every one of them. I mean, in all fairness, it's like this, everyone. But this rant is going on like it's crazy. And it's, "We love you. We love you. We love you," and you know what? I don't want to say it. I'm just saying, they have not been able to find in the history of politics in this nation, even we loved Ronald Reagan, but they have not been able to find where people broke out and said, "We love you," about, I guess I have to call myself a politician. I don't feel like a politician. How nice is that? I never heard it. I've been to a lot of different speeches and rallies. I've never heard crowds go, "We love you." But you know why? We love you. I love you. But you know why? Because, again, nobody has done what we've done. Ohio had the best year in its history last year. We had a great year. And next year, assuming we win, which I hope we're going to win, but if we win, you're going to have a year next year. First of all, take a look at the third quarter. It's going to be announced the numbers just before the election. They'll come out three days before the election. And I'll tell you what, I'll bet on the numbers, even though Crazy Nancy and these people don't want to give any stimulus, they don't want to give anything. They want to keep a lot of states closed wherever they can. You know what they're going to do? They're going to announce they're going to be opening on November 4th. There'll be open. All these closed states, they're going to be open on November 4th. One of them blue and a teacher's union. Did you see it? "No, we don't want to open now. We don't want to open. The pandemic. We don't want to." We're rounding the turn on the pandemic. Vaccines are coming soon. "But we don't want to open. Around November 4th we're going to open." This person that's a judge of a union said that. That was not good. I think they'll get rid of her quickly. I'm also proud that we have successfully brought back the Big 10 and the Ohio State Buckeyes. You better have a good year after all of that. You have a good team, right? Good coach. Good team. Good everything. You have a good team. You always have a good team. But there was a case, what do I know? I said, "How's it going? Everything good? Are you struggling?" They said, "Sir, Sleepy Joe Biden did an ad that you," me, "that you closed football." I said, "What do you mean I closed? I didn't close." The guy did an ad. It's called disinformation. It's called the opposite of what the fact is. Not only didn't I close it, I didn't think about it too much, okay? The states should all be open. But I heard about Big 10 football, and because of this ad, I said, "Hey, wait a minute. I have an idea." It was a fake ad, just like the ad on the grave sites, and that allows me to say that this man is a gross incompetent. He has no idea. Because now, see, I would never talk like that, but when I saw that horrible thing, and nobody's done more for the military than I have, when I saw that horrible ad, "An anonymous source has said that Donald Trump said this," I have 28 people now that have come forward saying it's a total lie, they don't care, so they did an ad, once they did that, I said, "Well, now the gloves are off." Let's face it, Joe Biden is incompetent. He always was even in prime time. he was incompetent in prime time. And now he's really incompetent. But because of the ad, I said, "It's very interesting, that ad, it's very interesting. Let me call up the Commissioner." I had called up the Commissioner, very good guy, and I said, "Commissioner, what can we do to get Big 10 football back?" "Well, I don't know." And we started a little thing, the Commissioner and myself, one of my guys, he's fantastic, and within a few days, it started getting talked about, and then we kept it going and we helped him with some testing because we have the greatest testing in the world. We get no credit for it. We've tested almost 100 million people. India is second with 38th and they have 1.5 billion people, slightly more than you. But I will tell you, so all of a sudden they have schools. Then looked like it was going to open without Michigan and without a couple of states. And then all of a sudden the pressure became so great, and the full league is opening now and it's going to be very exciting. And I will tell you, it's not a question of taking credit, but truly we were the ones that did that. I mean, it was. I'll tell you when I do it and when I don't. But it was closed, it was gone, it was announced that it was closed. And what really spurred me on was when Sleepy Joe announced that I was the one that did it. I said, "I didn't even know it was closed." But once I found out it was, I called the Commissioner. He was really good, I tell you. And we called a couple of the top people at the universities and they got it going. It looked like we had seven schools, eight schools. All of a sudden, everybody fell into line. I think they're all open now. Every one of them is participating. So I want to thank the Commissioner. I want to thank all of those schools. May the best team win. In other words, Ohio State. That's a good team. You know who the best proponents were? The players and especially the parents of the players. These kids have a short window to get into the NFL to create some excitement and how good they are. And you have a lot of potential players, but they couldn't play football. And they said, "We're safer on the field than we are staying at home," and they meant it. And we did something and I'm happy about it. So enjoy the football, enjoy it. Under 16 years of Presidents Obama and Bush, median household income rose only $2,945. So remember that. That's 16 years, 2009, so let's say 3000. Under three years of President Trump, it rose almost $7,000. So think of that, 16 years. Three years, achieving the highest median income in the history of our country. In my first three years, we lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction of any President in the history of our country. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world and we are doing it again. We're building it again. I see the signs "Make America Great Again," so I say this, it's called now "Make America Great Again. Again". Because we did it and then we had to close it up. We saved millions of lives. If we didn't do that, you would have had three million people. It would have been terrible. It's terrible anyway. They shouldn't have allowed it to happen, China. To defeat the China Virus, we launched the largest mobilization since World War Two. Through pioneering therapies, we reduced the fatality rate- Through pioneering therapies, we reduced the fatality rate 85% since April. Think of that. That's remdesivir and all of the things, the plasma, all different things. Where do you see what's coming out? Europe is almost 30% greater excess mortality rate than the United States. That's before today's big breakout. You know they had a big breakout in Europe and they keep saying in the fake news, they keep saying about, "Oh, Europe, Europe, Europe." Well, we're doing better than Europe. I hate to see what happened, and it had a big impact on the market today because it was a bad thing. But they had a big hit and they'll take care of it. They know how to do it. They'll take care of it. We're working very closely with Europe and other countries, including on the vaccine. We have three vaccines right now that are right there. They're right at the starting gate and they're going to be fantastic. So it's good. With Biden, if you had that regime, you'd be three years away because it would have never gotten out of the FDA. What we've done in a very safe manner is amazing. Now remember this, Biden was in charge of the swine flu, right? It's called the H1N1. Remember he calls it the N1H1. I said, "No, no, no, no." H comes before the N. It's so easy. But he goes, "The N1H1." We say, "No." But it's the swine flu. Maybe we just call it the swine flu. He did such a gross, horrible job on that. His own man who was in charge of it said they didn't have a clue. They didn't know what they were doing. It was a much less lethal disease and they lost many, many people. Many, many people. It was totally incompetently. And now I got this guy standing up. Well, we're giving him advice. His own guy that ran it. Did everybody see this? They're saying they didn't have a clue what they were doing. It was so bad. I don't know why the hell he said it, to be honest with you. Who would say that? Maybe because he was honest. Does that make sense? Now Biden gets up and he's saying to do the same things as we've already done. He basically took our plan and he said, "This is what you should do." But we have among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country in the world and the fastest economic recovery by far of any Western nation by far. Our bold and early action saved millions of lives and our decisive economic response saved tens of millions of jobs, including 1.9 million jobs in the state of Ohio. You know that? He knows it. He's got one of them. He's got one of them. Through operation warp speed, we're developing these great vaccines. And that's going to be… Literally, these will be done in record time. Like nobody's ever done it before. On November 3rd, Ohio will decide whether we end the pandemic and return to record prosperity or whether we allow sleepy Joe Biden and his group of incompetence to delay the vaccine, shut down the country. He actually suggested that he would shut down the country. We now know the disease. We didn't know it. Now we know it affects elderly people with heart problems and other problems. If they have other problems, that's what it really affects. That's it. You know, in some States, thousands of people, nobody young below the age of 18, like nobody. They have a strong immune system. Who knows? Take your hat off to the young because they have a hell of an immune system, but it affects virtually nobody. It's an amazing thing. By the way, open your schools. Everybody open your schools. Sleepy Joe Biden wants to impose a $4 trillion tax site, ban American energy, destroy the suburbs, give free healthcare to illegal aliens. How about that one? You know the bad part about that? We all have heart. We want to take care of people. Probably that is everybody's going to come to the United States. People that weren't even thinking about it, they're going to say, "Oh man, these idiots are giving free healthcare, free college education. They're giving free everything. They're giving a Rolls Royce to every family that enters through the Southern border." Remember I said that jokingly and CNN said, "He misrepresented. They are not getting a Rolls Royce." I agree. Now they're sick. They are sick. And indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies. They're doing that. We're stopping it. To combat the toxic left-wing propaganda in our schools, I announced last week that we're launching a pro-American lesson plan for students called 1776 Commission. We will teach our children the truth about America, that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth and we are getting better and better all the time. We got to. No party can lead America that will not teach our children to love America. Biden's running mate, Kamilla. Who likes Kamilla? Does anybody like her? She was the most failed candidate. I mean, she started off good. And every week she went down, down 15 points, 12 points, 11 points, 9 points, six points, five points, four points, two points. Didn't she leave at about two or one? She was heading down to the basement. She was so mean to him. I felt sorry for him. No, I did. I felt sorry. So she called them everything from a racist to a MeTooer. He was MeToo. He was a part of the MeToo generation. What she called him, what she said. So I brilliantly said, "Well, he can't pick Pocahontas because she was too nasty. How nasty was she to Bloomberg? Was she unbelievable? Boy, he was standing there. What happened? What happened? No, actually. What happened? Mini Mike. He's another beauty. He's a real beauty. Mini Mike, what happened? What the hell happened? He hit her so hard. Remember? She hits him with about 30 different things, and I'm not talking about our president. He thought she was talking about me. Can you believe it? And I'm not talking. I'm talking about you. He said, "Get me out of here. Get me out of here." And now he wants to buy his way back into the Democrat party. He wants to buy his way back into the Democrats. He hasn't taken enough abuse. If I were him, I'd sort of either ride it out or stay with the good Trump economy and get even richer. Biden's running made even urged supporters to help the bail riders out of jail. You saw that? Including one who attempted to murder a police officer and a man accused of sexually assaulting an eight year old child. Now they're trying to free them on bail. They're putting up the money to get them out by this plan to appease the domestic terrorist. And that's what it is. My plan is to arrest the domestic terrorist, and that's what we're doing for many people in jail. Many people. Remember what I told you about the monuments? This is remembrance. Isn't it beautiful? We don't see that anymore. Have you seen a monument knocked down recently? No, we don't see it anymore. I don't know. We want to rip down Abraham Lincoln. It got to Lincoln. First, it was not too many people heard of him. Confederate soldiers, et cetera. You say, "Hey, look, do it through a process." But they started hitting Lincoln. Then they hit Gandhi. Now Gandhi was about peace. Gandhi just wanted peace. Leave me alone. Peace, peace, peace. Let's rip them down. They're sick people. The Democrat party's war on cops has already led to a surge in vicious murders in Democrat control cities costing countless black lives. If Biden and the left gain power, they will dismantle police departments nationwide. I'll tell you, the community that's most hurt, most hurt by what they're doing and there is the black community, the Hispanic community. And we're doing great in the polls with the black community and the Hispanic community. And the Asian community. We're doing great. In fact, we did so well last night on one poll, they said it must be a typo. They did. It must be an error. It wasn't. It's no error. You're going to find out on November 3rd it's no error. As president, I always stand and I will always stand with the men and women of law enforcement. They're great people. They're very brave people. Not easy, and they don't get support. We have to give them back their dignity. We have to let them do their job. That's very simple. They're great. We're joined tonight by two high school football players. They became very, very famous. They became more famous than President Trump. They were beautiful. I watched them running through the crowds with those flags. Here's some place, I don't know, you got a lot of people here. We're going to try and figure it out. Hold up your flag. Jared Bentley and Brady Williams, who were recently suspended from their high school football team after displaying flags in support of our police and first responders on the anniversary of September 11th attacks. Where are they? Come up here, fellas. Come up. Come up here. Come up here. Secret Service is thrilled about this. See, these young kids can hop over the fence like it's nothing. Come up here. They're good looking kids. I want to congratulate you. You become famous. They're going to go to Hollywood. They're going to become movie actors right now. Right? You feel good about it? How's your team doing? How's your team? How's it doing? He said it could be better. You know what? You're doing great. And everybody out here loves you and they appreciate you. You did a great job. Good job, fella. Good job. Good luck. Is your arm okay? Good. You all right? Good. Good guys. Good guys. Jared and Brady, thank you for supporting the heroes in our law enforcement. We all love you. I'm telling you. You really set something up that's incredible, and thank your parents for letting you do it. I watched. You ask your parents approval. Isn't that nice? You know what the father said? "You better do it." Right? That's great. Thank you very much, fellas. Great job. Really great job. Country has a lot of respect. Speaking about warriors, we're also joined tonight by some great, great congressmen who are warriors and they represent Ohio so well and they love you and they love our country. Representative Bob Latta. Thank you, Bob. Great job. They like you, Bob. That's very good. Good job, Bob. Thank you very much. Congressman Warren Davidson. You know Warren. Thank you, Warren. Great job, Warren. Congressman Mike Turner. A great lawyer, actually. Thank you, Mike. Great job, Mike. You're really great. Ohio treasurer Robert Sprague. Robert, thank you. Thanks. Good treasurer. Ohio auditor Keith Faber. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, Keith. Ohio House speaker, Bob Cupp. Where is he? Thank you, Bob. Great job. Ohio Senate president, Larry Obhof. Thank you. Thank you, Larry Obhof. Larry is a good man. How's it going, Larry? Good. You're doing a good job. Huh? You're doing good. How are we doing, Larry? Is it going good? You're right about that. You're doing a great job. Thanks, Larry. I appreciate it. Ohio GOP chairman Jane Timken. She's unbelievable. Thank you, Jane. How are we doing, Jane? How's it going? How does it compare to four years ago, Jane? Up higher. All right. Good. Good. I think we are. I think we are. A friend of mine that I'll tell you, this is the greatest optimist. When I thought we had to be down, we lost a lot of the top, top support. The head of the Republican party, little things like that. I said, "We don't have a head of the Republican party. He left because you had a terrible governor in this state." Terrible. Your previous governor was terrible. He was terrible. I'll tell you, I got this man. I didn't know him. Within about a week, I said, "Man, this guy's a big optimist." And he was right. He called it right to the thing. He ran my campaign. When he came back for the second time, we had him in a high position. I said, "Bob, I think you're great. You're doing a great job. I want you back in Ohio. We have to do it again." Bob Paduchik. Where's Bob? Thank you. Thank you, Bob. Get over here, Bob. Thank you, Bob. He wants no glamor. He wants no glory. He just wants to win. He called it right down to the bone. We had a rough couple of days. I said, "Bob, how we doing?" "You went up two points." I said, "You got to be kidding." But we did. So much evolves around Ohio and it's just a state that we have a relationship with. It's a great state. We've done a great job for you and you've done a great job for us. So we appreciate it very much. Thank you. Together, we've spent the last four years reversing the damage done by the Democrats and Joe Biden over a 47 year period. Think of it. He's always talking about, "You should have done this. You should have done that." He really just left office. It's not that long ago, right? He's been there for years and years and now he should have done. He's never going to do anything. He's never going to do anything. Guy is a stone cold loser. Biden supported every globalist sellout of Ohio workers for over a half a century, including NAFTA, China's entry into the World Trade Organization, the disaster known as TPP and how about the Paris Climate Accord? That's another beauty. I'll tell you, that was designed to hurt our country. You would have lost trillions of dollars, closed your factories all over the place. In the meantime, China didn't kick in for another 10 years. The whole thing was a rigged deal. I tell you, I said, "I'm going to get killed for this one, but we're going to terminate." And you know what? The people got it right away. Everybody understood. That was another rip off of our country. This state lost one in three manufacturing jobs after the NAFTA and China disasters. Joe Biden is a shameless phony who pretends… He doesn't have a clue. What the hell? We're talking like he knows. He's got guys around him that are pretty smart. They're radical left. He's going to do whatever they tell him to do. He pretends to care about blue collar workers. After spending more than five decades in Washington, he tells me, "Why didn't you do this? Why didn't you do that?" You see these fake commercials. "Why didn't you do it?" I said, "I've only been here three and a half years. This guy has been here for 47 years. He didn't do anything." My actions saved countless jobs across Ohio and here in Toledo, the home of the Jeep, right? The home of the Jeep. That's good. That's a great brand. They've done a great job with Jeep. Jeep. Everyone loves Jeep. Earlier this year, I kept my promise to Ohio when we ended the NAFTA nightmare. I proudly signed the brand new US-Mexico-Canada agreement in July. That's a big difference. Like day and night. It's working out great too. It's working out great. You know how I know that it's a good deal for us? Because they don't like it. I took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's rampant theft of Ohio jobs. We achieved American energy. We passed record tax cuts and regulations. Our energy independence is incredible. We have now energy independence. We don't have to be in these far away lands anymore. Now we'll be there to help certain allies that have been great, but we don't have to be. Since my election, natural gas production in Ohio has surged 63%. They want to close it up. By the way, you do know they want to close it up. They want to close up all fracking natural gas ever. They want to close it up. This would kill at least 700,000 Ohio jobs. Probably more than a million. While I'm president, America will remain the number one producer of oil and natural gas and Ohio workers will continue leading the way. I just left the great state of Texas, and I talked to a lot of people like this, a great crowd of people. We have tremendous support all over the country. I'll tell you what. These people are great. And here's the platform that they have. Sleepy Joe Biden. No oil, no religion, no God, and no guns. Now I'm in Texas. It's a really rough thing in Ohio, but now we're talking Texas. No oil, that doesn't work well in Texas, right? No guns. That doesn't work well in Texas. No God. Look what they're doing to the churches and everything. That doesn't work. No God. No religion. That doesn't work well. You would have to be George Washington with your running mate would be Abraham Lincoln. Okay. Your VP candidate. And you'd still lose very big. And then they say- … and you'd still lose very big. And then they say, "Yeah, he's doing okay. He's two up in Texas." They said it last time too, that Texas is even, four years ago. And everybody said, "No, I think Trump is killing it." We'd have stadiums with 25,000, 30,000 people, much more that couldn't get in. We'd have 40,000, 50,000 people outside and they'd say I was even. We won in a landslide, just like we won this state, in a landslide. You know the expression they use, "Texas is in play." You know what "in play" means? It could go either way. And guys would get on there and say, "I don't think so." And then that night again, "The polls in Texas have closed. Donald Trump has won the great state of Texas." I mean, the whole thing is crazy. It's crazy, it's crazy. You know what they do? It's suppression polls. They try and depress you. They try and make you unhappy so you go out to dinner with your wife, your husband, you go out to dinner, "Darling, let's have dinner. It's so sad. We love Donald, but he just can't make it. He can't make it. Let's go out, have dinner. We'll come home and watch the results." Except 2016 came and nobody did that, they all went out and voted and we kicked ass. Tell me, was that the most exciting evening in the history of television? Did you ever see the ratings, the combined ratings? I think the biggest ever. But was that the most exciting? 2016, was that the most exciting evening in the history of television? We invested $2.5 trillion in the U.S. military, including more than $6 billion in contracts. I'll tell you what, you like the word pronounced Lima or Lima, because I saved Lima. And I tell you what, I saved Lima. I came here and they were going to close that plant in Lima. They were going to close the tank plant. It was done. And I said, "Why are we closing a tank plant?" And I got a couple of calls from my friends, the Congressman right here. And I got calls. And Jim Jordan called me. Do you like Jim Jordan? He's great. And I looked at this army tank plant in Lima. I said, "Why are we closing it?" And I saw the people building the tanks and the technology's incredible. And if you ever closed it, you'd never be able to open a thing like that again. So I overrode the generals, I overrode everybody, and now we're making a record number of tanks in that plant and it's absolutely thriving. But we had tremendous success. We took 100% of the ISIS caliphate and we killed the founder and leader of ISIS, Al-Baghdadi. We took out the world's number one terrorist and the mass murder of American troops and many other people. Qasem Soleimani is dead. He's dead. I withdrew from last administration's disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal. They paid $150 billion, plus $1.8 billion in cash. You know they got? Nothing. They got nothing. I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Every president for many, many decades said they were going to do it. They never did it. They never did it. They didn't have the guts to do it. They campaigned on it, they were all going to do it. Then they got there, there was a lot of pressure put on them. A lot of pressure put on me. Every leader was calling all over. "Please don't do it. Please don't do it. Mr. President, please don't do it. Don't do it. Don't move it. Just leave it the way it is. It's okay." But I promised and I said, "I'm going to do it." And then I got calls from the biggest people in the world. Kings, I got calls from presidents, from prime ministers, "Please, please don't tell it." Then I got calls, "Please have him call me back me," me. I said, "Look, tell everybody I'm out for three days. I'm not going to be able to call them back." I had a news conference, we announced it. Then I called everybody back. "Hey, how you doing? How's everything going? Everything going good?" "Yeah, well, I wanted to talk to you about Israel, but it's too late. You already did it." And we did it and we got it done and nobody else got it done. And it's something we had to do. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. And instead of endless wars, we are forging peace all over the Middle East. And you saw that. And I'm the only man that got nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize and I didn't get any press. They wouldn't. For two of them. Last week, I'm not bragging about it, I'm just saying, I'm the President of the United States because of Kosovo-Serbia, they've been killing each other for years, I worked out a deal for them. I got nominated. And then Israel with Bahrain and UAE, and many more to come. I mean, they all want to do it. We'll have peace in the Middle East without blood all over the sand. No blood. We're going to have peace in the Middle East. So I was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. And I told this story last night. Should I tell it or not? Should I? Yes. She wants me to do it. So I go home to our great First Lady. I said, "First Lady, you're going to be so proud of me tonight. I was nominated not once but twice for totally separate events by different people." Great people. "First lady, I was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize." I was like this. "I was nominated." It's a big deal for our country, right? And she said, "Oh, that's good." I said, "Let's turn on the evening news. Let's watch it. This is going to be a big show tonight. Get ready." And NBC, which is one of the most crooked, one of the worst newscasts, and I'm talking about normal NBC, not MSDNC. MSDNC is the worst. So I turned on NBC with Lester Holt, another beauty. And they start with a hurricane and then they went to something, and something else. And I'm saying, "First Lady, this is getting a little embarrassing. We're 20 minutes into a half hour show. They haven't mentioned the Nobel Peace Prize." And then it went through the whole show and they never mentioned. Then I got nominated for a second one. They never mentioned. And when Barack Obama, Barack Hussein Obama got nominated, now when Barack Hussein Obama got nominated, he didn't know why he was nominated. It was like right at the very beginning. He didn't do anything. He did nothing and he got nominated. It was the biggest story I've ever seen. But that's okay. In the meantime, we're President and they're not. No, that's right. You would think if you nominated for the Nobel Prize, you'd get maybe half a second. The First Lady, she said, "Sorry, darling. That's the way it goes, isn't it?" Joe Biden opposed the mission to take out Osama bin Laden. He opposed killing Soleimani. He voted for the Iraq War disaster. He backed the disastrous Iran Nuclear Deal. And he cheered the rise of China as a very positive development for our country. "Oh, it's really great." If it were up to Sleepy Joe, bin Laden and Soleimani would be alive today, ISIS would be on a rampage, Iran would control the Middle East, and China would be the dominant power anywhere in the world. And I want to tell you, if you go back a few months before this pandemic, we were gaining, gaining, gaining. We had an insurmountable lead on China. I always heard they were going to catch us by 2019 for 10 years. We were so far beyond, we were doing much better than they were. The Biden agenda would obliterate our economy. He destroyed social security, destroyed protections for pre-existing conditions. That's what he's going to do, drain your Medicare by giving away your healthcare to illegal immigrants. He would end our travel ban to jihadist regions and increase refugee admissions by, listen to this, over 700%. And this is the manifesto with Bernie Sanders, with Crazy Bernie. He made this deal with Crazy Bernie. And by the way, a lot of the Crazy Bernie voters last time, four years ago, voted for Trump because of trade, because the one thing they do understand, that our country has been off for years. Biden opposes school choice and vowed to ban charter schools. Very important to have them. In a second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America. They're totally against it. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans. And just, in conclusion, first of all, it's been a great honor to be with you. This is, really, it's a great state. They're great people. I really mean it. No, I really mean it. Get out there on November 3rd. We've got to win this one big. This is a bad, bad ideology. This is probably a step beyond socialism. I really think in many ways, it's communism we're talking about. This is a step beyond. Socialism's no good. Communism's really bad. But get out there on November 3rd and let's show him your stuff and show them the stuff of all of us. So, in concluding, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end the reliance, this ridiculous, crazy reliance on China, and all of these far away lands once and for all. We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States. We will hire more police. And by the way, thank you, police. Thank you, law enforcement. Increased penalties for assaults on law enforcement and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens and we will keep America out of these ridiculous, stupid, endless, foreign wars. We will maintain America's unrivaled military. Our military might has never been like it is right now because of what we've done. And we had no choice, and hope to God we never have to use it, because if you would ever see the power of what we've done over the last three years, it's almost better for you not to see it. We are the envy of every power, every country in the world. We have weapons that nobody ever even thought possible. And just as I said, hope to God we never have to use them. And the way we don't have to use them is to keep that kind of strength. Nobody's going to be talking to us. We're going to have peace through strength, and it's all made in the U.S.A. Made in the U.S.A. We'll end surprise medical billing, require price transparency. I've already signed it into law. Kicks in on January 1st. It's going to cut your bills down to a level that you wouldn't believe. That doesn't mean the drug companies and the hospital and corporations are happy with me. But that's okay. And further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs by 50%, 60% and 70%. Big pharma does not like me too much. They're taking ads about me that are so bad, but you get it, you understand it. They're not too thrilled with me, including the rebates. The rebates go back to you. The rebates before went back to very rich people. We will strongly protect Medicare and social security, and we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. And America will land the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. That's what's happening. NASA is again the leading space station anywhere in the world. There's nothing like a space center, what we've done. And there was grass growing in the runways when I took over three and a half years ago. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, "In God we trust." For years, you had a President who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great state of Ohio. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your co-workers, get everybody, and get out and vote. Got to get out and vote. And in your state, in Ohio, early voting has already begun and don't wait. And when you see them cheating on the other side, I don't say if, when, when you see them cheating with those ballots, all of those unsolicited ballots, those millions of ballots, you'll see them, anytime you do, report them to the authorities. The authorities awaiting and watching. From Akron to Columbus, from Cincinnati to Queen City, I know it weller than Cleveland, and from Dayton to Toledo, we inherit the legacy of generations of Ohio patriots, like Neil Armstrong, Annie Oakley, William McKinley, and the amazing Ulysses S. Grant, that's good. Nobody's stock has gone up like Grant. Nobody in the last 10 years. We stand on the shoulders of American heroes who crossed the oceans, blazed the trails, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, dug out the Panama Canal, laid down the railroads, raised up the skyscrapers, won two world wars, defeated fascism and communism, and made America the single greatest nation in the history of the world, and you haven't seen anything yet. Proud citizens like you helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God, and together with the incredible people of Ohio, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Ohio. Get out and vote. Thank you. Thank you very much, Phoenix. We love to be back. We'll be back a lot. We're going to win that election. Thank you very much. Hello, Phoenix. It's great being here in the great state of Arizona with thousands of hardworking patriots who believe in God, family, and country. Thank you. Thank you. And with your help this November, we are going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats and we are going to win Arizona in a landslide. It's all over TV that the folks here tonight have helped a great World War II veteran into the arena. I don't know if he knows it, but he's right now the hottest celebrity in the world. I don't know what's going on here. He might even be hotter than Trump right now, I have to say. Did you see the scene? No, he's all over television. Even fake news CNN him on. They say he's a legitimate great hero of World War II. Erwin Julian. Irvin, thank you. And I asked my son Don to get a couple of hats and get some things, and give them to Erwin right now. And I want to thank you. Really, that's a great honor. And thank you for the great job you've done. An American Patriot. Thank you very much. Thank you, Don. How did Don do tonight? Okay? He's good. Good guy. And he loves this country. So this is truly an incredible time for America. We have the best economy, the most prosperous country that we've ever had, and the most powerful military anywhere in the world by far. Do you remember the good time we had a week ago at the State of the Union? You remember that, right? And that was my honor. But I proudly declared that we are in the midst of the great American comeback. Our country is stronger today than ever before. And after three years, of very unfair and ridiculous witch hunts and partisan Democrat crusades… It was the radical left's pathetic attempts to nullify your ballots, poison our democracy, and overthrow our entire system of government. But guess what? They failed, and our poll numbers are higher today than they've ever been before. And we're standing up to the defense of our Constitution, our freedom and democracy itself. We're doing something that's never been done in the history of our country. This movement has never taken place. Nothing like it ever. And the fake news can attest to it, because if they thought I was saying the wrong thing, it'd be out there immediately. It'd be all over the place. It'd be all over the place. Trump exaggerates. That's terrible what he says. There has never been a movement like this, and it began very early. It began in 2016 with that wonderful, beautiful night. You remember that, right? That beautiful night in November. And we're going to have another beautiful night in November. This time, it's going to be November 3rd. Get ready, November 3rd. We're coming. We're coming. So we're having great polls. You're seeing the polls, except for some of the fake ones. And if I was treated fairly… Meaning, if you were treated fairly by the fake news, we'd be up 20 points higher in the polls. There wouldn't even be a competitive election. Unfortunately, it's probably going to be competitive. But I actually think we're going to win by a lot, just like we did last time. But I really believe we'd be up 20 points. I mean, all they do is negative, negative, phony stuff. Russia, Russia, Russia. The impeachment hoax. That's a hoax. But you know, we had great support from the Republican party in the House. It was 197 to nothing. And in the Senate, it was 52 and-a-half to a half. You know what the half was? A halfwit. And while the extreme left has been wasting America's time with the hoaxes, we've been killing terrorists, creating jobs, raising wages, enacting fair trade deals, securing our border and lifting up citizens of every race, color, religion and creed. By the way, they turned away 21,000 people outside, so feel very good. Feel very good. We haven't had an empty seat. You know what? We haven't had… True. We haven't had an empty seat, and this is a tribute to all of us because this is a movement like nobody's ever seen. But we haven't had an empty seat since your great… and this is a great first lady. Came down the escalator with me in Trump Tower a long time ago. We haven't had an empty seat. From our rural communities to our inner cities, we're expanding the blessings of America to all of our citizens. We added another 225,000 new jobs last month alone. You saw that, the geniuses. You saw that. You saw that last month. They were doing predictions on one of the shows. What do you think? Well, I think 60,000. What do you think? I think 100,000. What do you think? I think 84,000. These are the ones that tell you all about how to invest. What do you think? And then they came out 225,000, the market goes up again. 225,000. 225,000. So many manufacturing jobs. So many that frankly, we're never going to come back. Remember, you need a magic wand, right? They came back. And remember this, we're paying interest. The past administration didn't pay interest. They pumped money in like it was candy. And we didn't pump money in, we took money out. And not that I was happy about that, because I disagree with it. Because frankly, if we kept the old practice which frankly, some people could dispute one way or the other, we would have been up in my opinion, another 10,000 points in the Dow. And we've set 144 records on the stock market in three years, 144 records. 144 records. Record stock market. And you know what that means? That your 401Ks are up 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100%. Guys come up to me. He said, "Mr. President, I just want to thank you. My wife used to look at me like I was a total loser, sir. Every year we lost money for years and years. She said what the hell is wrong with you, Henry? And this year sir, I'm up 92%. She loves to me again. She thinks I'm a genius." 92% 401K. "She thinks I'm a genius, sir. She loves me again." Shows what money can do, right? But that makes… And think of this. Seven million new jobs since we were elected, we were elected. And when I took over, ISIS was all over the place. And we immediately started. We have destroyed 100% of the ISIS caliphate. We have killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi is dead. And we just took out the world's top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, ending his evil reign of terror forever. And the fake news doesn't want to tell you that. They don't want to tell you that. They don't want to tell you. In fact, do you remember the dog? Great dog, Conan. When we took out, right? We love Conan. Conan's a tough dog. But when we took out al-Baghdadi, Conan… Remember this? Conan got more publicity than President Trump. That's okay. They were looking for al-Baghdadi for 16 years. We found him and we took him out. We killed another one last week. The head of Al-Qaeda. He was gone, dead. And America is respected again, respected like never before. We're respected again. We're no longer the laughingstock that gets taken advantage by every country, including by the way, our allies, who in many cases take a bigger advantage than our enemies. I will tell you that. They take big advantage, but not so much anymore. We're winning. We're winning like never before. Washington Democrats keep on losing their minds. They hate the fact that we're winning. We're winning big. We're winning, winning, winning. And that is why millions of registered Democrat voters are leaving their party to join our movement. They're joining our great Republican party in droves. You see it all the time. I just spoke to some of your leaders. He said, "This is unbelievable what's happening. This is unbelievable." You know, there have never been rallies like that. Sleepy Joe Biden the other day had 68 people. And now they have a new member of the crew, mini Mike. Mini Mike. No boxes, we call him no boxes. And I hear he's getting pounded tonight. You know, he's in a debate. I hear they're pounding him. He spent $500 million so far, and I think he has 15 points. It just came out. Hey fake news, how many points does he have right now, 15? They won't tell you the truth. They won't tell you the truth. MSDNC, MSDNC is worse than CNN. They're owned by a company called Comcast. You can have Comcast, a bunch of phonies. But MSDNC is worse than CNN, and they're all pretty bad. You know, they just came out with a poll. They just came out with a poll a little while ago. Mini Mike was at 15, and crazy Bernie was at 31. That's a lot. And mini Mike just spent $500 million. But the DNC is going to take it away from Bernie again. That's okay, because we don't care who the hell it is. We're going to win. We're going to win. We have to. Well let me tell you, these crooked politicians, they really took away three years from us. Because despite the fact and nobody disputes it, that we've done more in three years with the tax cuts and regulation cuts and the military and the choice and everything, we've done more than any administration in history. We've done more. But think of it, think of it. We did it with phony witch hunts. We did it with the impeachment hoax over our head the whole time. We did it under circumstances that should never ever happened to another President again. True. But with your energy and enthusiasm this November, we're going to take back the House, we're going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep the White House. So we're thrilled to be joined tonight by some of the best, greatest. I love them. Leaders in America, Arizona leaders. I want to start. Come on up here, Governor Doug Ducey. Come on up here, Doug. Come on up here. You're going to speak in a second. Also, I call them warriors because they fought like hell. They worked with our future Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy. But we have some of your great warriors. Paul Gosar, come up here, Paul. Come up here. Andy Biggs. Andy Biggs, head of the Freedom Caucus. Andy Biggs. David Schweikert. David, come up here. A big, big star. You know about that, Doug. She became this monster star. She looked with such indignation at the other side, such disgust, Debbie Lesko. He'll be running some day. You said your grandson? Wow. He'll be running someday. Arizona Senate President, you know who that is, right? Karen Fann. Come up, Karen. Arizona House Speaker, Rusty Bowers. Vice President of the Navajo nation, Myron Lizer. And Arizona Republican party State Chair, Kelly Ward. Kelly Ward, come up. And we have a lot of other leaders, but we've got to get back to speaking. Do me a favor before I introduce a very special guest, I'd like to ask your great Governor… You know, he won like by 16 points. It wasn't even a contest. You know, I'm very competitive. I want to beat him. Will you please get out to the polls so we can beat him? But he's tough to beat. Doug Ducey, say a couple of words, please. Please. These are great people, great people. Thank you very much. So you know, before I introduce somebody very important to all of us, to me… Also, I have to say with us tonight is an Arizona hockey great, a friend of mine. He's a great golfer too. He's a tough golfer. I'll tell you, he's tough to beat. He's tough as hell. And if you beat him in golf, he'll try and beat you physically. He doesn't care. He was the toughest hockey player. He was one of these guys, he could beat you one way and if he couldn't, he just beat them up, right? He'd beat him up. And he's a friend of mine. He's a great guy, Jeremy Roenik. Where's Jeremy? Where is he? Thank you, Jeremy. He's a winner. We're also joined by Donald, Jr. and Kimberly. They're great people, great. And RNC co-chairman, Tommy Hicks. And RNC finance chairman, also happens on a team called the Chicago Cubs, I shouldn't tell you that… Todd Ricketts. So finally, it's my great honor to introduce a tremendous person, a great fighter pilot. A lot of people don't know that. She's a great fighter pilot and a warrior Senate. She helped us so much during the impeachment hoax, she didn't wobble one bit, Martha McSally. You know, Martha's tough on the border. And she's working with me to strengthen our military still further, and lower your prescription drug prices. We're making a lot of progress. But her opponent, I have to say this Martha, a guy named Mark Kelly. Even the Democrats don't like him much. He wants to raise your taxes, open your borders, give away free healthcare to illegal immigrants, and he wants to obliterate your second amendment. He wants to get rid of it. The radical liberal Democrats from California and Massachusetts, they're pouring money into Kelly's campaign, because they know that he's a rubber stamp for crying Chuck Schumer, crying Chuck, and nervous Nancy wacko Pelosi. And we're going to have a new Speaker. But that's why Martha has my complete and total support and endorsement, and we have to all get out there and make sure that Martha McSally… She's a warrior. Let me tell you, you don't know. We don't know. People don't know, people. This one is tough as hell, and that's what we need. Martha McSally. Thank you. We'll be back. Thank you Martha. Well, she's right. How about that Congressman Al Green? We can't beat him, so we have to impeach him. How about that? That's not what our… as they call them, the founders. How many times did you hear the name, the founders? That's not what the founders had in mind. But we're going to have a big, big election victory. We're working to- But we're going to have a big, big election victory. We're working together. I don't think the Republican party has ever been more unified than it is right now. I really don't believe so. So whatever you can do for Martha, we need her. It's been so incredible. Thank you very much. Thank you for everything, Martha. I appreciate it. Thank you. Together we're building the world's most prosperous economy and the most inclusive society anywhere. We're inclusive. This is the Republican party. We're inclusive. Right here in… Right? You know that. Right here in America, right here in Arizona, we've created 240,000 new jobs right here. Including over 60,000 new manufacturing and construction jobs here. Nobody thought it was possible. You've had the best year that you've ever had. Arizona, you've had the best year, the most successful year that you've ever had in the history of the country. It's the best year you've ever had. So I'm going to take all the credit away from your governor. I don't care. No, we have a great team with Doug and everybody else, but you've had the greatest year. You know that, Doug, number one year in the history of your state. It's an incredible achievement. Incredible achievement. I don't know, this has to be pretty good stuff on the debate stage. We'll talk about, "Well, you had the best… In many states, the best year they've ever had." Then they said, "Let's get a new president." I don't think that's going to work so easily. The country's had the best year it's ever had. Let's get a new president. Let's put in crazy Bernie. Let's go. Crazy Bernie. Unemployment has reached its slowest rate in over 51 years, half a century. The average unemployment rate for my administration… Think of this. The average, so we're talking about now more than three years, is the lowest for any US president in recorded history. The unemployment rate among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans has reached record lows, lowest in history. African American youth unemployment has reached an all time low in the history of our country. African American and Hispanic American poverty has plummeted to the lowest rate ever recorded. The unemployment rate for women has reached the lowest level in 71 years. Soon to be historic. And veterans' unemployment has dropped to a record low. We're working with our veterans, we're taking care of our veterans like nobody's ever taken care of our veterans. The unemployment rate for disabled Americans has reached the lowest level in history. Workers without a high school diploma, you have a lot of them. They left high school. They said, "I should have finished." They left. They can't go back. They left. We've achieved the lowest unemployment rate without a diploma ever recorded in US history. Isn't that great? They're great numbers. Hispanic Americans right now, more than 500,000 own a home. More than 500,000 more own a home. And we've lifted 10 million people off of the welfare rolls. Think of that. 10 million people have come off of the welfare rolls. And happily. Not that we did anything. They have jobs and they love them. They're making much more money and they love getting up and going for work. If they don't like that job, they can get another one, because people are starving to get great employees right now. They're starving to get great employees. Since my election, the net worth of the bottom half of wage earners has increased by 47%, three times faster than the increase for the top 1%. Median income. Think of this. This is such a big deal. Median household income reached the highest level in the history of our country. Under President Bush, in eight years it went to $450 more. Under President Barack Hussein Obama, under a period of eight years, it went to $975. Under president Donald J. Trump… Did you ever hear of him? In only three years, including regulation cuts and tax cuts… Because the other ones raise taxes. We cut taxes by the record amount. It went to $10, 000 per family. A record. A record. That's why our consumer right now, our people, they're booming with cash. That's one of the reasons our economy is doing so much better. China had the worst year in the last 67 years. Asia's doing poorly. Europe is doing poorly. The United States is doing great. We're doing the best we've ever done. The best we've ever done. To lift up forgotten communities that need investment, and these are really communities that need it the most, we created Opportunity Zones. We worked with Tim Scott, the great senator from South Carolina. His idea. He came in and saw me. I said, "Let's give it a shot." Nothing's worked over the years, but this has really worked. Now jobs and investment are now pouring into 168 newly designated Opportunity Zones right here in Arizona alone. From Apache to Navajo and Maricopa Counties. We're supporting working families by fighting pay. We are doing a job with paid family leave. We're doing something that nobody's ever done to this extent. Reducing the cost of childcare and giving 40 million American families an average of $2,200 in their pocket thanks to the Republican child tax credit. Our historic regulatory reduction campaign is restoring American liberty and cutting through job, killing red tape like nobody has ever cut regulations before. We've ended the war on American energy, lowering utility bills, reducing prices at the pump, and eliminating our reliance on hostile foreign suppliers. For the first time, America is now energy independent. Such beautiful words. Energy independent. We fought wars. We did everything we could. We used to take the straits and everybody else benefited. We'd them clear so that other countries could take oil from the Middle East with… That nobody paid us. Now they're starting to pay us a lot of money, folks. They took advantage of us. But we have everything we need right now. We have made such progress in the last three years with pipelines. The Keystone Pipeline, Keystone XL. I approved it. The Dakota Access Pipeline. I approved it. 48,000 jobs. We're reversing decades of calamitous trade policies. The worst trade deals any human being has ever seen. I said, "Who made these deals?" The worst, stupidest deals I've ever seen. They were good for other nations. If you like other nations, that's great. But we're now putting America first. It's very simple. For years, Washington politicians took money from lobbyists, global corporations, and really, the most corrupt special interests anybody's ever seen. To ship our jobs and our factories to other countries. We lost our taxes, we lost our workers, we lost our companies, and we did nothing about it. Now we've done a lot about it because companies are pouring back in. America lost one in four manufacturing jobs following the twin disasters of NAFTA, the worst deal ever made, worst trade deal ever made, and one that was almost as bad and gave China an entrance into being a rocket ship when they entered the World Trade, WTO. One of the worst deals that we participated in this. By the way, we just won $7.5 billion in a lawsuit with WTO. We weren't winning anything. We weren't winning anything, but they said, "I think this guy's going to pull out." They treated us so unfairly. We were always in the minority position. I mean, who the hell negotiated these deals? But they look at us and they say, "Look, if we're not treated fairly, we're gone." All of a sudden, we're winning all these cases. But we just won 7.5 billion. 7.5 billion. Did you know that, Doug? 7.5 billion. But under this administration, the great betrayal is over. America's no longer for sale. America is no longer for sale. Those days are over. Two generations of politicians came and went promising to replace NAFTA. How many times have you heard we're going to replace NAFTA? Probably the number one reason I ran for office. Are we glad I ran for office? I think so. It's funny, I was watching the different… I find it fascinating. I'm watching the different returns coming in and I'm watching as much as I can of this stuff. I love it. We all love it. If you don't love it, you're not going to do it very well. The crazy New York Times, which was a dead newspaper when I ran, it was dead as a doornail. A month before I ran, Doug, I held up a New York Times, it was like what you get thrown in your face at a supermarket. It was a thing. It just flew away. There was nothing. Now it's doing very well. But you know what? Someday we won't be here. When we're not, those papers are in big trouble. But this thing was a dead newspaper. But I was watching and they had an article this weekend about people that spent their own money and how they're doing. They have Mini Mike has spent $411 million. It's a question mark, how's he going to… I'll tell you how he's going to do. He's probably not going to get the democratic nomination. That's how he's going to do. But Mini Mike, $411. Then they had this idiot, Steyer. We call him impeachment Steyer. How did that work out, Steyer? He's another beauty. The guy worked… He spent 210 million. He got one-third of 1% in Iowa. In New Hampshire he did much better. He got less than 3%. Guy's in there for like 250 million. How did it work out, Steyer? You jerk. I never even heard of him. I never even heard of him. I turn on every time… For years, I'm turning on… Impeach him. They don't even know why. They never say why. They don't have any reason. Impeach the president. This guy spent a fortune on this stuff, so it worked out pretty good. But anyway, so then I go and I look. It has Mini Mike's… Question marks. I can give you the answer, but right now they have to have a question mark, right? Then they go down and they had other people. Some of them I like. They have Ross Perot, who honestly… It was a tough day for Bush when he joined the campaign. Because Clinton didn't win. Ross Perot took away 19% of the votes. Didn't Clinton get 41 or 43%? Give me a break. But that's okay. Whatever. But they had Ross Perot spent like 100 million, which is probably double if you bring it up to today's dollars. Then they have different people. A friend of mine who ran, Steve Forbes, he ran twice. He was in for a lot. Then they had Donald Trump. Now, this is your own money. This is your own money. I said I'd spend a lot of money on my primaries. We'll see how the hell we do. It's amazing. Once you win, money comes in. It comes in pretty fast. What's that all about? But so in the middle they had Trump, and then they had four or five that were behind me. Lot of money spent. Loss, loss, loss, loss, loss. But in the middle they have Donald Trump. It didn't say 500 million, and it didn't say 250 like this Steyer guy. It didn't say… It said 70 million of my own money. I spent 70. It said, "Donald Trump won the presidency of the United States." Right? We won. My father would teach me, if you could spend less and win, that's better than spending a lot and winning. Crooked Hillary spent at least three times more than we did and lost. Crooked as hell. She's crooked as hell. We have a double-sided justice. It's very unfair what's going on. Very unfair. But let's see how it all works out, folks. Let's see how it all works out. I hope you're going to be happy. I hope you're going to be happy, because there are a lot of dishonest slimeballs out there. Dishonest scum. Dirty cops, a lot of dirty cops. By the way, the FBI, those guys in that are incredible. But the ones on top, they were absolute scum. What they were trying to do, if that happened to Obama, or a Democrat, or especially a liberal Democrat, they'd be in jail for 50 years and it would have taken place two years ago already. They spied on our campaign. Remember that. After they spied, we won. Then after we won, they tried to get us out of office. It's never happened before in the history of our country, and we can't let that happen. We can never ever excuse it. We can never let them get away with that. Never let them get away with it. But we keep our promises that we work hard and our economy is great. The last month, we ended the NAFTA… Look, you saw it. NAFTA catastrophe. That's what it was. We ended that catastrophe. Again, I really ran because of NAFTA. I said, "How stupid." All over the place. In your state, but you go to New England, empty factories, empty buildings. Still you have empty buildings. We lost so much. We lost 60,000 factories and plants. I signed that brand new, beautiful US-Mexico-Canada Agreement into law. The USMCA is a gigantic victory for farmers, and ranchers, and manufacturers all across the great state of Arizona. By the way, for people with the small farms and small businesses, if you love your children, you can now leave your companies, you can leave your farm, you can leave your ranch to your children, and you don't have to to pay, they don't pay a death tax. They don't pay an inheritance tax. A big deal. That's a big deal. So if you love your children, it's good. If you don't love your children, it doesn't matter. Don't leave it to them, if you don't love. If your children are no good to you, don't give them anything. Let them go out and work like hell. No, if you love… Does anybody in this incredible audience… Man, this is a big building. Does anybody not love their children? Anybody? Do I have a hand? Do I have a… There's a hand. You've got to be kidding. You've got to be kidding. So then you don't care about the tax. Okay, don't worry about it. He says, "No, I don't care about that one." Well, that's good. You look like a nice guy too. He's tough. You'd love to be his kid, wouldn't you? But I also took the strongest ever action to confront China's massive theft of American jobs. Our strategy worked. Last month, we signed a groundbreaking trade agreement with China that will defend our workers, protect our intellectual property, and boost American exports. China will invest $250 billion a year into the United States and buy our products and create jobs. Nothing like that has ever happened before. After years of building up other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. That's the way we want it. We are finally putting our country first. We are putting America first. On no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly sold out the American people than immigration. You know it almost better than anybody. Anybody, Doug. You know it better than anybody, what they've done on your border, but we're stopping that border. That border is clogged, and we've started the big wall right in Arizona. We build a lot of wall. That's a big one. That's a big one. Top of the line. Before I came into office, the far left's policy of open borders allowed deadly drugs to flow freely into our country, poisoning our children. Including, as you know very well right here in Arizona, Washington Democrats put the needs of illegal immigrants before the wellbeing of American citizens. They want to let anyone from around the world simply walk across the border. Then they want to give them a lifetime of free welfare, healthcare, everything. They want to give them everything. For a long period of time, they were treated… You know this before I came. They were treated far better than our veterans were treated. Now our veterans are treated great. True. Illegal immigration costs Arizona taxpayers more than $2 billion every year. Two billion you're paying. Nearly 20% of Arizona's annual budget in general funds goes toward this big problem. For the amount of money Washington Democrats want to spend supporting illegal immigrants, we could rebuild our cities all throughout America, which is what we should be doing. Under my administration, we are finally taking care of our own citizens, including millions and millions of legal immigrants who follow our laws, pay their taxes, and are entitled to a government that protects their families and their communities. Every day, Democrats' open borders policies are harming and killing innocent lives. In Arizona alone last year, ICE officers arrested over 4,500 criminal aliens charged or convicted of dangerous offenses including robbery, rape, and murder. Right here in Phoenix, an illegal alien chased a man through a parking lot and shot him in cold blood, then walked over to the victim and shot him four more times right in the face as he laid dying in the street. This savage animal had previously been deported after serving six years in prison. He was in prison six years. He was there six years and nobody wants to talk about it. They want to protect them. Last year in Tucson, another illegal alien was sentenced to 10 years for repeatedly raping a vulnerable young woman. Yet left wing politicians oppose all detention of illegal aliens, even convicted criminals, and they support deadly sanctuary cities that release these criminal aliens directly into America's communities. Thankfully, Arizona has banned sanctuary cities. With a Republican majority in Congress, we will ban them in every state in America. 30 in the morning. I then went to California, made two speeches. I then went someplace else. I said, "Am I finished?" No, you've got to go to Arizona tonight and speak in front of like 25,000 people. I said, "That's okay. That's okay." I said, "That's okay." No, I said, "That's okay," because I love this unbelievable energy in this crowd. But you know what? Honestly, there's tremendous energy in our nation. There's tremendous energy in our nation. Greatest nation in the world. Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border, we have reduced illegal border crossings for eight straight months in a row, which will soon be a record. Illegal crossings are down 75% since last spring. The month of January saw the fewest illegal border crossings in two years. And we've ended catch and release, a horrible Democrat policy that we got terminated. Border patrol, great people, have seized the largest amount of deadly narcotics ever recorded in the history of our country this year. We've deported record numbers of gang members, including the worst gang of all, MS-13. Thousands and thousands of people have been thrown the hell out of our country. We've done more to secure the border than any administration in history. We're building the wall, as I said, faster than ever. It will soon be almost one new mile a day. We're looking for that. Washington Democrats have never been more extreme, taking cues from crazy Bernie Sanders. How's he doing tonight? 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie's healthcare takeover of the world. Think of this, 180 million Americans are going to lose healthcare coverage under this plan. But if you don't mind, I'm not going to criticize it tonight. Let them keep going and I'll start talking about it about two weeks out from the election. Okay? Because I don't want him to change. Please don't change. Same with the Green New Deal. I don't want to talk about it, Doug, tonight. I don't want to talk about it. I came up with the name Pocahontas. Too early. But fortunately, she's self-destructed anyway. Did you ever see a phony like that? She's a phony. She lost because she couldn't keep it straight on her own heritage. She said she was an Indian. I said, " I have more Indian blood in me than you have, and I have none." She said, "Oh," and she panicked. She panicked, and she had a test. You know the result, 1/124th. I think I win the bet. Somewhere along the line, I think I win. No, she… I did it too early. I would have saved it, but I guess it was effective. She's essentially gone-zo, so… One of those things. While the socialist Democrats are try- … one of those things. While the socialist Democrats are trying to destroy American healthcare and your social security, my administration is protecting your social security, your Medicare, and is fighting to give you great healthcare. And that's what we're getting. That's right. One of the big secrets. The Democrats won't let us say it. They want to keep that as quiet as possible. Look what they gave you, the worst healthcare. And what we've done, we've gotten rid of things that nobody could believe that was so bad for you. Everybody was happy with defending your right to keep your doctor and plan of your choice. We're making healthcare better and much, much cheaper while premiums more than doubled in the last five years before I took office, we are now offering plans that are up to 60% less expensive than they were, and it's better healthcare. A lot of people don't know this. People don't know this. They think that's their issue. It's not. They failed on healthcare. We're protecting people with preexisting conditions, and we always will. And by the way, we're trying to get rid of Obamacare, but we're managing it incredibly, but we're trying to get rid so we can give you a great healthcare plan and protect preexisting conditions. Remember that. We're trying to get rid of it, but while we're having it, we're managing it really much better than they did. Remember they built the $5 billion website? Remember that? It was supposed to cost $5 million. It cost $5 billion. $5 billion. I mean, you could get a kid out of high school. I have a son. He's a young boy, 13. He uses a computer. He could have given them a healthcare site. I would say he would have charged them $100, Barron Trump, and it would've worked. He's so good. "Hi dad. How you doing, dad? How's it going?" Bing, bing, bong. I said, "Don't play with that while you're talking to me." "What's going on, dad?" These kids are incredible, right? The kids, they make us look like babies with that. But he could have given you a great site for about $2. They spent $5 billion on a site that never worked. By the way, speaking of that, how did they do with their vote count in Iowa? And I hear, I hear, I don't want to say it. I don't want to jinx them because, of course, I want them to do well, but I do. We don't have anything. Nobody's running against us in so many states. It's sort of nice. We can save the thunder, right? But I hear that in Nevada. I'm hearing bad things about their vote count. I hear a lot of bad things are happening, like they don't know what the hell they're doing. I turned on the other night, Iowa, I wanted to see … And by the way, we set a record in the history of Iowa. We had more votes than anybody's ever had as an incumbent president. Same thing in New Hampshire. It's a good sign. It's a good sign. By a lot. By the way, by a lot. But I'm hearing that, and I hope this isn't the case because I'd like to find out who the hell won. We still don't know who won in Iowa. I heard coming over here they're still working on the count. No, no, no. He said, "You won." Yeah, I think we did win. I think we did. Very good. That's very good. I have to thank you, that one. That's very good. No, we did win. Look, we are winning. We're winning big. We have fake polls out there. These guys do fake polls. They are fake polls. I had a poll. It's just like it was in 2016. I'd hear these polls. I'd hear women didn't like me, and I did great with women. I hear everyone didn't like me. Nobody liked me. Nobody liked me. And then we won. Thank you, women. Nobody liked me 2016. No, no, I hear that. Remember, women didn't like him, and at the end of that he did great with women. He did great with this. He did great with everybody. We did great with everybody. Remember, 306 to 223. That's a slaughter. That's a slaughter. Remember, they said he cannot get, they used the word path. There is no path, right, to 270? I was at 269 if I did great, but they said there's no chance. But I was at 269, so I went to Maine. I love Maine. I went to Maine. Maine's cut in half. And one Maine has one. I went there four or five times. People are great. I won it. And they were right. There is no path to 270, but there was a path to 306. These people. These people. There is no path. That's right, Doug. They said there is no path, the fake news media. "There is no path for Donald Trump." And then they said the evening of the election, "It's going to be a really short night for Donald Trump. Thank God, we got rid of this guy." Because they did the exit polls going out, right? And I was even told, but a lot of people didn't want to talk about it. The highest number in history of people that said very nasty language, but I'm not going to use that name because you'll kill me if I use it. So I won't use it. It's a much better story if I use it because that's the truth. That's what they said. "How did you vote?" Usually, they say, "I voted for Clinton," or, "I voted for Trump." Right? "How'd you vote?" "None of your business." See, I'm being nice, right? I'll keep it that way because otherwise we'll ruin the whole evening. They'll say, "His language," right? Even this tough guy in the front says, "I agree." "How did you vote?" "No, I don't want to tell you." "How did you vote?" "None of your damn business. I'm not going to tell you." "How did you vote?" "I'm not … " And it was like this massive number, right? Massive. So everybody, they just didn't count that. So they said numbers are looking unbelievably well for crooked Hillary Clinton. They're looking unbelievable. This is going to be a very short evening for Donald Trump. We finally will be rid of this guy. And then the numbers started coming in. The numbers started coming in, and it started with the great state of Florida. Donald Trump has won the state of Florida. And then that beautiful convention center, the most beautiful stage I've ever seen. And they knew something was going on because they didn't pay the final payment for the fireworks two weeks before. Right? In fact, I went to the fireworks company, and I said, "I'll give you five cents on the dollar for your fireworks," even though they were no way near where my area was. We were at a hotel in Midtown. We liked the location better than where she chose, but they built the most … we remember that beautiful stage. It was shaped like the United States of America. And by the end, it didn't look too good. Did you ever see more unhappy people? So they go, "Donald Trump has won the great state of Florida. They go, "Whoa, whoa, whoa." They outspent me like five to one. Only negative ads. They're all negative. So by the time people got into the voters booth, they only knew one thing. She hated Donald Trump, but they said, "What the hell does she stand for? What does she do?" Every ad was a negative ad. So it tells you negative ads, at least against me, aren't so good. They can be effective. But I think they spent like $ 2 billion on negative ads. Everything was negative. So nobody knew what the hell she spent. You know, her husband said she was going to lose. Her husband's a professional. Her husband said, "You better go to Michigan because I was there and they got a Trump/Pence sign on every lawn I've ever seen. You better go to Wisconsin, Hillary. You better go to Wisconsin." She said, "No, we haven't lost Wisconsin in 36 years". "No, no, Hillary, you got to go there. I'm telling you, I don't like what I saw." "No, what do you know?" He's a professional politician. She wasn't. It's one of those little problems in life. So then it came in, and then we won South Carolina. We won North Carolina. Right? And we were leading Pennsylvania by so much that if I lost, remember at 2% of the vote left, if I lost every single vote, I win by a lot. They refused, the fake news refused to call it. I kept saying, "We won Pennsylvania. Why don't they call it?" It was very late in the evening when they called it because they are fake, they're crooked. They are fake. And I said, "Why don't they call Pennsylvania?" But some beautiful things happened. And by the way, Ohio, we won by one of the largest margins ever. The great, great, great state of Ohio. Remember? Remember, they used to say a year before the election, they said, "Well, nobody can win. Nobody, unless you win the great state of Ohio." And we won the great state of Ohio, and we won it big. We knew we were going to win it. And now we're up a lot more than we were up even then, because you know why? We're bringing back jobs. We're bringing back factories. Everybody's working. Nobody's ever had a better year than we've been having. And we've been doing it for a long time, right? Almost from the beginning. And don't let them try and take credit, because if they came in, we would have ended up in a massive recession or worse, the D word, depression. We would have been, because they were going to put more and more and more regulations on. And I'll tell you, maybe bigger than even the tax cuts, and I did it sooner, were the regulation cuts. We freed up our nation to go back to work. True. So then we won Wisconsin, and then we won Michigan because those companies, now they're pouring back in. The auto companies are pouring back in, and Wisconsin's doing great with the farmers that Canada was taking. You know, Canada was charging our farmers 287% tariffs for dairy products. Okay? So what happens is this, we're working on healthcare. We're fighting to stop surprise medical billing. I just signed an executive order imposing price transparency because when providers are required to show their prices, those same prices fall very fast. We've approved a record number of affordable new generic drugs, which are just as good as the brand drugs, but they cost a tiny fraction. We've totally transformed veteran's healthcare, including getting long-sought VA choice and VA accountability, which they said could not be done. And we passed the spectacular right to try. So if you're in trouble, and I hope nobody in this massive arena's in trouble, but if you're in trouble, you can go and get whatever the new drug or whatever where we have the best doctors, best hospital, best labs. You get it. And the luck we are having, we are saving so many lives. It's incredible what's happening. People would go to Europe. They'd go to Asia. If they had no money, they'd go home and die. Now they have the right to use our drugs before they're approved. Think of that. Before they're approved. And we're very importantly combating the opioid epidemic. Drug overdose deaths. The overdose deaths have declined for the first time in 34 years, and life expectancy is rising again in our nation. We've launched bold new initiatives combating kidney disease and Alzheimer's disease. We're making tremendous progress, and we're pursuing new advances in neo-medical research. Think of that, neonatal research, the numbers are incredible. What's happened is incredible, to care for America's youngest patients and breaking all records in doing so. All of the radical Democrats in the presidential debates have declared their unlimited support for extreme late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb right up until the very moment of birth. That is why in my State of the Union, I asked Congress to prohibit late-term abortion of babies because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. The Democrat party is the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, socialism, blatant corruption, and the total destruction of your Second Amendment. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, the Second Amendment and the late great Abraham Lincoln, right? Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background, every community, and every walk of life. We are the party of boundless optimism, excitement, energy, and enthusiasm. We have tremendous energy. Tremendous energy. Everybody says to me, "Where do you get the energy?" Because I love what we're doing. I see the results, and they're happening faster than you even think. You see the numbers. They're happening faster than you would even think. We are asking all Americans to join our incredible movement. We are the big tent. We are the big party. We are the party with big ideas for the future. Republicans are fighting for school choice because no parent should ever be forced to send their child to a failing government school. Right? Right? To keep our community safer and give former prisoners a second chance at life. There's been nothing like this. I passed criminal justice reform, not the Democrats. I did it with the Republicans, and this could not have been done by anybody but me and the Republican party. The Democrats did not do it. They could never have done it.  Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. We have invested $2.2 trillion to rebuild the United States military, including nearly $200 million for Marine Corps Air Station Yuma. Right? I recognized Israel as the true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. We recognize Israel sovereignty over the Golan Heights. They've been trying to get it for 52 years. And for years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. You saw that. They apologized. Now you have a president who is standing up for America, and we are standing up for the people of Arizona. At stake in our present battle is the survival of our nation. It is. This election is so important. It's the survival of our nation. If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for to secure, then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020. You're the forgotten people no more. Right? No deplorables, right? No deplorables. Who knew that was going to turn out to be such a disaster? But you know, she used the worst word. What was the word she used? Irredeemables, right? I thought that was the problem. No, it was deplorable. So what the hell do I know about politics? She said, "You're irredeemable and deplorable." I said, "Oh, that irredeemable's terrible." The next day people are showing up. Women, "I'm a deplorable." Only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp, which is vicious, horrible, ugly, and evil. Much worse than I thought. But we're getting there and not pleasant. A bunch of really bad people, very dishonest people. With your help, we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. Together, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration. We will continue to enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words and phrase. I love the phrase, Made in the USA. Made in the USA. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within now nine years. We started a year ago. Can you imagine that? We're doing that, and it's going to happen. Who would have thought we could have done that? We will land the first woman on the moon and become the first nation in the world to plant our flag on Mars. We will defend privacy, free speech, and you know this. You know it's under siege, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. We will defend it. It's under siege. It's under siege. You see it in Virginia. They want to take away the guns. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one beautiful America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. we stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto In God We Trust. From Tucson to Tombstone, right? Do you agree? You agree, right? Look at him. He's agreeing, this guy. He's agreeing. No more censorship is right. No more evil. No more crimes. You're right. From Yuma to Mesa and from Flagstaff to right here in Phoenix, we stand on the shoulders of red-blooded American Patriots who poured their heart, sweat, and soul to secure our liberty and to defend our freedom. Arizona was founded by pioneers and prospectors, great prospectors, cowboys and miners and ranchers who tamed the wilderness, braved the blazing sun, and it is hot here. I've been here during the summer. I want to tell you, it's seriously hot. Of course, didn't they say that President Clinton, when he went on the back of the plane was here to play golf, it was 121 degrees that day? I don't know about that. I don't know about that. What do you think he was doing with the Attorney General? I remember he said, "Oh, I just happened to see she was … I was here to play golf. It was 120 degrees out." I don't know. A lot of crooked stuff went on. I wonder what they talked about. I'm sure it wasn't that she would become a Supreme Court Justice. I'm sure it wasn't that they were going to extend her tenure as Attorney General. She was a real beauty. I'm sure it wasn't. I'm sure it was nothing. They spent 45 minutes on the plane talking about golf and their grandchildren. Right? Can't let it happen, folks. Can't let it happen. We can't let it happen. You fought the battles and helped make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth, and we are making it greater every single day than ever before. Great, great, great citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people, with your help, your devotion and with your drive. We are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. Do you like winning? Because not very long ago you weren't winning, and I don't want you … I told this a few times during the campaign. Haven't used it in a long time, but I don't want you going to your great governor. He's a great governor, Doug Ducey. I don't want you going to your governor saying, "Governor, governor, we just can't stand winning so much. Please go see the president in the oval office. Governor, the people of Arizona don't want to keep on winning. It's too much governor. It's not even fair to the rest of the planet. Please tell him, Governor Ducey, please tell him, ‘President, the people of Arizona have won too much. We don't want to keep on winning.'" And I'll look at Doug Ducey, and I'll say, "Doug, I've a lot of respect for you, Doug. You won by 16 points. That means a lot. But Doug, I don't care what you say. We're going to keep on winning, and we're going to win like never before. And the people of Arizona are going to love it." And he's going to say, "Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going back home." The fact is, we are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Arizona, the best is yet to come. That's right. Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you very much. Thank you, Arizona. Thank you. Doesn't have the power. Doesn't have the staying power. You see what's happening in California. Blackouts, rolling blackouts. How would you like that in Pennsylvania? The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Darling, what's wrong? I can't watch Trump on television. I can't watch our president. Darling, we have a rolling blackout. It'll only be a few hours. I think we'll be on by two o'clock in the morning, darling, and we can watch a rerun. Now, this is what's happening. You have rolling blackouts. You have, in some cases, just blackouts. I don't even call them rolling. Not going to happen to your state. Last year, I visited the Shell petrochemical plant in Beaver County, Pennsylvania, the largest investment in your state's history. That was all made possible by our pro energy policies. We've done it a lot. In Louisiana, we're building some of the largest plants you've ever seen, largest in the world and it's incredible, all related to energy, but your security and your jobs are in very grave peril, because the radical left maniacs, they don't want to have anything to do with energy. They don't want anything to do with, they have different concepts, right? They have the green new deal, whether it will be no energy, almost of any kind. No, it's crazy. Thought of by AOC plus three. You know AOC? and she's got them. She's radical left, but she's not as bad as some of them. How about Omar of Minnesota? We're going to win the state of Minnesota because of her, they say. He's telling us how to run our country. How did you do where you came from? How is your country doing? She's going to tell us, she's telling us how to run our country. You know what? The Democrats in Congress, you have to see what they are doing. Their stance on Israel, it's like a whole different world. It's like from 10 years ago, it's like a different world and we want to keep our world the way it was and the way it's going to be. We've got the greatest country on earth and we're going to keep it that way. We don't need socialist and we don't need communist telling us how to run our country. I do this every night and a lot of times it's a waste. I did it last night. We were … Did you see the crowd we had last night? We were in a great place, Ohio. We had a crowd. We had a crowd. You couldn't see the end of it. I said, "Turn around camera, turn around." But, they never liked doing that, you know? They don't like spinning those cameras. They don't want to show the crowd. They don't like showing. They don't like showing, show the crowd and this is … it's an honor. Let me tell you. Look, I used to think that was a difficulty like it was a new camera that can't turn, but then whenever there was like a problem, like there'd be a little argument or some kind of an anti-Trump person, you don't see that much. I don't want to bring it on, but you don't see it much anymore. You know why? It's dangerous. It's dangerous for them, but you know, I'd see the camera would never move, whenever where there's something like a little negative happening, that thing would turn around like a pretzel. I said, "Oh, it does move." But, they never want to show the crowds. They never, last night. Now, I went home and I tell you this, I go home all the time. First lady, "How'd you like the crowd?" Sir, I didn't see it. I didn't see it, but I didn't see it, Donald. I didn't see it. Sometimes she'll call me Mr. President, but she's only kidding. Believe me. She's only kidding. Has she been a great first lady, right? She's been a great first lady and very popular. She's really done a great job. She works hard. We have some great people here tonight. I brought certain members of my family, but I'm going to introduce them to you in a little bit, okay? Great family. They work hard. I'll tell you what, they work hard. They really work hard. But I do wish they would show because it would be, you know, it's actually better for them if they show. It shows the importance. The only thing you can do is show. I'll say, "How did it look?" I don't know how it looked, but the sound was phenomenal. Okay? It sounded like a Penn state football game like the Steelers football game. You can't disguise it. You ever see Sleepy Joe with the little circles? Oh, you can. He puts them very far away, so far away. Then he comes up with the mask. He's like a hundred yards from the nearest human being. He's got a … He feels good about the mask. I wonder in the debate it'll be him and I or the stage. Is he going to walk in with a mask? No, I think he'll come in with a mask. I don't know. I have no idea. Well, the question is, will he leave it on during the debate? Because it's a little hard and I'm all for mask when you need them, I'm up, but when you're making a speech and the nearest person's like where you are and you're in a stage all by yourself and then he had a habit of taking it off and it hangs down on his ear as he's speaking, it makes him feel comfortable. Honestly, whatever makes you feel good is okay with me, but it'll be interesting. I'm going to be, we're going to have a big rating on that. He's been doing it all his life. He's been doing it for 47 years and I've just started doing this stuff. I'm just starting. But, I'm just thinking, but I did it more in 47 months than he did in 47 years. That's true. That's true. You look at what we've done. No, it's true. That's actually true. He did a lot of negative stuff too. You have to deduct that out. When asked if there would be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration, Joe replied, "No, we would make sure that it's all eliminated." All of a sudden, he gets the nomination. He's been trying to get the nomination for decades. He finally get, and that was prime time for him, which was never great. He never got more than 1%. We called it. Remember, I called him his first nickname was 1% Joe. Frankly, had Elizabeth Warren been loyal to her philosophy, which is radical left, socialism, perhaps communism. I don't know, perhaps. It's verging on communism, right? But had she been loyal, she would've left. She would have quit. She had no chance. She was out. Pocahontas. She was gone. Remember, I said, " I have more Indian blood in me than you have and I have none." I'd love to have some, but I don't happen to have any. Then she choked and she went out and got a test. She announced she had 1024th, right? 1,000. That means, like I said it last night, that means around 700 or 800 years ago, somewhere, there was a little bit of a relationship going and that's okay. Seven, 800 years ago, maybe. What a phony she is. It's terrible. Now, we're going to pick a great woman, any one of the five that I told you, but any one of the women that we had they're all great people, great scholars, great, brilliant people. A lot of people. 00 on Saturday at the White House. You see, we have tremendous Republican support. Two people. Always got to be two. Always got to be the two. Those two. We have great support from the Republican party, tremendous support. It's never been this unified before ever, ever and the fake impeachment. We had 196 to nothing Republican support. We had 52 and a half to a half in the Senate. Who is the half? I can't imagine. I can't. Buddy was very good today. I have to tell you, he was good. Now, I'm happy. Thank you, Mitt. Thank you. No, he was very good, very positive statement, but days ago, Biden reiterated his pledge to require net zero carbon emissions. That's basically saying, you know what that is? There'll be no more oil. There'll be no more gas. There'll be no more nothing. There'll be no more industry. There'll be no more country. That's what it's like really. That would instantly shut down all fracking and all mining immediately in Pennsylvania sending your jobs overseas, sending your money to somebody else, not you. I'll keep your jobs in Pennsylvania where they belong and you're going to be doing fracking for a long time. I can say the same because you are really big in energy. I can say the same thing to you as I say in Texas. So, they don't want oil. They don't want fracking, right? They don't want the energy that we know that powers these massive plants because the other stuff is wonderful. It's not going to do it. It's not going to do it. So, they don't like oil. They don't like the gas. They don't like God, religion, churches are close. How about these states? They still have churches closed. By the way, your governor hasn't been so great. You know that, right? Are your churches still closed? They're still closed. They're doing it for a reason. By the way, November 4th, they'll announce, "We've decided to open up." Okay? They're trying to make our numbers as bad as possible. So, California's closed. Pennsylvania's closed. North Carolina's closed. Michigan is closed. That's another beauty right there, Michigan's closed. Then they have these fake ballots, millions and millions of ballots. By the way, when not if, when you see shenanigans, please report it to your authorities. Okay? The real authorities, they're watching and the authorities are watching, but please report it. But when you look at it, really, it's amazing. They're trying to make our numbers look bad, but even with numerous closed states and you notice also law and order, right? Law and order, the red states, the Republican states, they're working great. Record low crime, record low, but Democrat run states, you look at Chicago, you look at New York, New York has gone through a … We have to bring back. We should draft Rudy Giuliani. Okay? Let's bring him back. Draft Rudy. We want Rudy. Rudy, Rudy. I'll tell you Rudy is amazing, but he did a great job. New York was in big trouble. He came in and he just was tough, smart, and it became the safest big city. Now, we have a man where some categories of crime were up 300%. He fired 1,000. He fired a lot of police, I guess, a billion dollars a year worth of police, worth of great police, firemen and women. It's a terrible thing. I love that place so much and it's so sad to see what's happening to New York. We're going to make a little bit of a play for New York. In theory, the Democrats automatically win New York, but I do phenomenally in most parts. Then one part, it's automatic, but I can't imagine that particular part is going to be very happy. So, we're going to make a play for New York. With Pennsylvania, I don't have to make a play. We've got Pennsylvania. Just go out of here. We don't have to make a play. We don't have to. It's a great, you know, for years though Pennsylvania was a place that Republicans just didn't win. For many years, everybody thought they were going to win, every Republican. So yeah, we're going to win Pennsylvania. They thought they were going to win it and they didn't. I came along and we won it and we won it quite easily. Quite easy. I think we're going to do even better now, because remember, number one in the history of your state last year, and that's because of what we did, we stopped the dumping. We saved your stell. So many different things, but Pennsylvania is the home of American energy. Think of it that way. This has taken place over a very short period of time. Also, the birthplace of a thing called the American constitution. Right? American constitution. To uphold our constitution as written as opposed to as conceived by some radical left judge, I will soon be announcing that nominee. You're going to love it. You're going to be so happy. If you don't love it, don't vote for me. Okay? You don't like it. My opponent refuses to release a list of justices. I was told that a big thing when I was running last time, nobody really knew me. They knew me very well. We had great success at The Apprentice and in business and it was great, but they never knew what kind of a judge I would pick or to be a justice, right? A justice of the Supreme Court. I said, "I mean, what am I going to do? How am I going to solve that problem?" But, I was in politics, never. Don't forget, when I ran, they said, "No, he's inexperienced." I ran against some very talented people. Some of whom are very good friends of mine. Some of whom I don't like too much. When I don't like somebody, it last for a long time, but I said, "Well, how do we solve that problem?" I don't know. They just weren't believing. The appointment of a- Just weren't believing. The appointment of a United States Supreme Court justice was much more important to the voters than I thought. And they're right, because they will set policy for 50 years and they'll set policy, whether it's life, whether it's second amendment. The second amendment, if I weren't president, you know the pressure, your second amendment would be obliterated. It would maybe be gone, but at a minimum obliterated, they haven't touched your second amendment. Not even touched it. Because I'm here to block. I'm a blocking force. I'm like a lineman for the Pittsburgh Steelers. I'm a blocking force. No, they haven't touched it. But your second amendment would be under siege. So nobody knew. I never knew. You hear about Supreme Court, you know about Supreme Court, you know about other judges, by the way at the end of the first term, we'll be close to 300 federal judges, including court of appeals, which I think is a record. I guess it's a record. It's a lot. That's a lot. Nobody's done that. It's record. Think of that. 300. That's a big percentage of the entire judiciary. Think of that. 300. And many, many court of appeals judges, but two great Supreme Court judges or justices. And now we're going to get a third. Can you imagine our enemies? Three in one term. So many presidents, they just don't have the chance and it's so important. But I said to my people, I said, so if they don't believe me, what I'll do is I'll make up a list of 25 judges or people and we'll tell them, "I will only pick from that list." They said, "That sounds like an interesting idea." This was my idea. When you've never run for office before you have to have a little bit of imagination. So I got out a list, I named the people, the people are good, and I said, "And I promise that I will pick someone like the people on this list." And it didn't work. It went nowhere because they didn't trust it. They said, "We want you to pick the people on the list, not somebody like the people on the list." So I went back the next week, I said, "I will pick somebody that's on this list." And they were all great, great judges for the most part, I think almost entirely, but judges and really respected conservative believers in our country, solid, incredible people. And as soon as I did that, things went through the roof. It was amazing how important it was. By the way, would you stand up with that beautiful jacket? I love this guy. How many times- How many events? He's been to a couple. That's really great. Thank you very much. I've seen him before. He's been here a couple of times, like about 90. Thank you, man. That's really nice. I'm going to get one of those jackets. By the way, the wall. The wall, yeah, 330 miles. 330 miles. 330 miles. And yes, we have a great relationship with Mexico. First they said, "He'll never be able to build it." The Democrats were just brutal. I made a terrible mistake, I said it last night, I should have said, "We will not under any circumstances build a wall at our Southern border." They would have given me all the money in the world. But stupidly, I said, "We will build a wall." And the Democrats said, "Let's not give it to him." But we got it, we won. We won court cases, we won court cases. I won so much money we could build four walls if we wanted. So then they said, "All right, all right." They've lost. So by the way, we're up to 330, the exact wall. Their dream choice. I said to the border patrol, I love these people, they're great, ICE, the border patrol, what they do is incredible. They're incredible. I said, "Give me your dream wall, as long as we're building we might as well build a wall that you want. Let's build it right." "Sir, we have to have vision. We need steel and concrete." I said, "How about one or the other?" They said, "No, sir, we need steel and concrete. We need steel. Inside those poles we have rebar and we have concrete and they're 30 feet tall. We need all sorts of things. We need them to be wired." I won't tell you why they're wired, but they're wired for a reason. They're all wired up and they're incredible. But you know what? We got the wall. Nobody could have done it. So once we had the wall and it started going up and then we hit a hundred miles, 200 miles, now we're at 330, and we're building 10 miles a week and it'll be finished very soon. And we have the most secure border in terms of drug trafficking, trafficking coming along and we've done phenomenally well. Because that's a lot of the territory that we need. We're going to go up to probably a little bit over 500 miles, so we're at 330. But once they saw that I had it, they said, "Yeah, but Mexico's not paying for it." But they are paying for it, Mexico's paying for the wall. They are paying for it. They're paying at the border. They're paying for the wall. All those trucks that go back and forth. They're paying for the wall. So the Democrats said, "Yeah, but Mexico…", they always have to find something, right? And do you remember what I used to say that if they fight us, remember people would say, "What happens if they fight you on the wall? What happens if they fight you right to hell on the wall?" I said, "The wall would get 10 feet taller." Took a little hit on that, we took a little bit of a hit, but that's okay. The wall is a tall sucker, you don't want to get up to the top. They look down, they say, "Oh, ye, ye, how do we get down off this?" It's tall and it's strong and it's great. And we appreciate, because Mexico has been working with us very closely. They have right now 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our Southern border making sure that people don't come into our country. I want to thank the president of Mexico. Very helpful. So I made this list of potential justices and I'll tell you, it all changed. Now I'm asking sleepy Joe Biden to give me a list and he doesn't want to do it. You know why? Because he can only put super radical left judges on, people that would destroy our country, people that would destroy your country. And he knows that he's not electable… He shouldn't be electable anyway. This is the worst candidate. You know where he is today? They have a thing called the LID. I don't even know. Do you know what LID stands for? LID. He put out a LID today early in the morning. LID means he's not going to be anywhere today. I'm working my ass off, I'm in Ohio, I'm in Texas, I'm in Florida, I'm in Michigan, I'm in Wisconsin. Man. Thank you. That's so nice. Well, that is something that one of the fake news reporters back there, they said they've never heard of that one. "There was a chant that's going over the last six or seven rallies saying, ‘We love you.'" That's never happened to a politician before. Am I a politician? I don't want to be a politician. I don't think of myself as a politician. But it really is, I appreciate it. I've never heard it. I liked Ronald Reagan, but they never said we love you, or maybe they did. They're going to try and find out. Then they'll say, "President Trump lied last night because 40 years ago I remember…" But no, nobody's ever heard that one before and I appreciate it because it is reciprocal. Thank you very much. Reciprocal. Reciprocal love. It's reciprocal. I had such a nice life before I did this. I had such a nice life. Then I had the witch hunt that goes on forever. It goes on. And then we catch them spying on our campaign. How about that? Let's see what happens though. But we caught them spying, all of that, the whole big deal. And then the guys that were doing the investigation, they have their 31 different phones, they were accidentally wiped clean. 31 different phones, I think it was like 19 different people, and they all did the same exact accident. Which if you knew anything about phones, it's almost an impossibility to do it once. Let alone 31 different times. So we caught them and that's called obstruction. We have to remember that's called obstruction. That was the Mueller group. That was a Mueller group. All those phones, they were wiped so clean. And Hillary got a subpoena on the 30. I said, "Forget about these things because you'll find them. They have them. They're in the state department." I have no doubt about it, they're in the state department but they'll get them. But you know what? 33,000, they have a request from the US Congress, that's not bad, US Congress they send a subpoena, very, very important, and after getting the subpoena, she deleted all of her emails and acid washed, and then she took her telephones. I've gotten rid of phones too. I throw them away. She took cameras and she beat the hell out of them with a hammer and then threw them away. And they found a couple of them. She was very angry, obviously, if she did the hammer work. But if anyone else said this, there's a protection, there's a dual level of justice, but we're getting down to the bottom of it because it's not fair to us. Not fair to us. 33,000 emails. She deleted them on the basis that it was all about her daughter's wedding, Chelsea, and also yoga classes. 33,000 emails on yoga and a wedding. I don't think so. And Comey said, "Oh, that's okay. That sounds like a good reason." That's Comey. That's another beauty right there that Comey. But we caught him, we caught him. Very smart move. Getting rid of that guy was a smart move, but we caught him. Listen, we caught him. They were spying on the campaign, they were doing actually worse than that. Nobody's ever done a thing like this, so let's see what happens. But we caught him cold, we got so much stuff. Remember the insurance policy, right? From Strzok and Page, two lovers. They were very smart. They would use the public servers and send it over the public wires because they didn't want to be caught having an affair. So they went over the public. That was a very good thing for us. Wasn't it? " Darling, darling, darling, please. She's going to win. She's going to win, isn't she? Peter, Peter only you can save us. Peter, she's going to win. Yes, darling. She's going to win. I know. 100,000 to nothing." Remember that? It was actually 100 million to one. This was a hundred million to one. This is this idiot. So listen, "So darling, please, please tell me again. Yes, 100 million to one she's going to win. But just in case she doesn't, we have an insurance policy." Now that only means one thing. And we went through the insurance policy and we caught them. So let's see what happens to these treasonous crooks. These terrible people. And they put our nation through turmoil. But I just want to thank… A lot of people were very unfairly treated. You look at General Flynn, look, he's still going through it. Can you believe it? But a lot of people were unfairly treated by a bunch of treasonous, horrible people. And they used the intelligence agencies of our country to try and steal an election and to try and do a coup. Wouldn't you think? Who would ever think this country… But that's all you can say. Some people would say, "Well, that's a conspiracy theory." No, just take a look at the records. For me, it's a very exciting thing because we found something that nobody would have thought possible. Now let's see what happens. But we have them cold, they spied on our campaign. It's our campaign And if you want to save America, you have to go out, get out and vote. This is the most important election. In just three and a half years we've secured America's borders, which makes them very unhappy, rebuilt the awesome power of the US military, we built the military. It was totally depleted when I took over. We built a military. Two and a half trillion dollars we spent, all made in the USA, the greatest equipment, the greatest planes and rockets and missiles and our nuclear. I hate to even mention the word and hope to God we never have to use it, but we have the most powerful weapons in the history of the world. And we did that over a very short period of time. Weapons that are so powerful that we're the envy of the world, but I never want to use those weapons. And hopefully we'll never have to. You know the way you don't have to use them, is when you have them. It's when you have them. But nobody's ever built force like what we have. And the newspapers and the press and the fake news they went and said, "He just gave away classified information!" I said, "No, I will look you right in the eye," first of all, I'm allowed to do it, I'm the president, so I'm allowed to actually. I'm the only one that's allowed to. But no, no, I didn't give away. I'm just telling you, most powerful weapons ever produced we have, and other countries know that. And it's a good thing that they know it and I don't think we'll ever be using them. And I hope we don't. I hope to God. I use the word God, because they refuse to use the word God in their pledge of allegiance, right? Twice. I use the word God. I hope to God, we never have to use them. But I obliterated the ISIS caliphate, which was all over the place. 100%. Remember I got it down to 99%. They said, "You got to go a hundred." I said, "Let's get out of here. We're bringing them all back home. Everyone's coming back home." Long, long wars. The never ending wars, the endless wars. We fixed our disastrous trade deals, they were a disaster, brought jobs and factories back to Pennsylvania under 16 years. And think of this, for 16 years presidents, Obama, President Bush, household income rose $2,945. That's over a 16 year period. In three years, your household income rose almost $10,000. When you include energy. You have to include energy. Without energy, almost $7,000. But we have to include energy. I mean, how much are you paying for your gasoline? You never saw $2 gasoline. Less, right? It's less. They go up, it's less. It's a big difference. What is it nowadays? Come on, tell me. I haven't got any gas. I haven't stopped recently at a gas station. 15? Okay. Because for a while it was way under two. And we're going to keep it there. We have so much, we have so much. In my first three years we lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction in the history of our country, by far. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world. And right now we're doing it again. I see all these hats, Make America Great Again. And now I'm going to say this, Make America Great Again, Again. Make America Great Again, Again, Again. We saved 1.4 million jobs in Pennsylvania alone and to fight the China virus, it's the China virus, not the coronavirus. Corona sounds like a place in Italy, a beautiful place. It's corona. No, it's the China virus. They don't want to say it. The radical left, they don't want to say it. You ever notice they're always going to have to Russia. Look, nobody's been tougher on Russia than me. "Russia, Russia, Russia." I said, "What about China?" They never going to to mention it. They got little deals going on I think. But coronavirus, doesn't it sound like Italy? A beautiful villa. Corona. No, it's a China virus. They should have stopped it. To fight the China virus we launched the largest national mobilization since World War II. We did an A+ job, except we did a D job in terms of public relations, explaining it because we were too busy doing it. But the fact is they wouldn't have written it anyway. It didn't matter to them. It's there. It's their little thing. You have a watch Biden? He can't talk about it he thinks, so he gets up, "The coronavirus," they say, "We want to talk about Supreme Court judge today." Well, I don't know about that. "The coronavirus." And he doesn't know we did a great job, he has no clue. He said, "I should have opened." He goes, "I should have shut down one week earlier." What he doesn't say is he did the worst job in the history of an epidemic or a pandemic with the swine flu. It was a joke. And what he did, his own man, that was in charge said recently, "We had no idea what the hell we were doing. It was a total disaster." There were amateurs. And now he tells us how to do something that's far more lethal. But he said, " They should have closed one week early," except when it came to closing the border, which I did, which turned out to save tens of thousands of lives, Biden criticized me until two months later when he said I was right. But we should have closed a weak earlier. Think of that. We pioneered lifesaving therapies, reducing the fatality rate 85% since April. Think of that. Remdesivir, the plasmas, we have among the lowest case fatality rates of any major country. Nobody knows that. And I am devastated to see it happening, but you see what's going on in Europe again. They were always saying, "Oh, Europe is doing better." Actually we did better, but now Europe has a big spike, a big spike. So they're not talking about that. The number of hospitalized virus patients is down by 47% and virus patients coming to the emergency room is down and visits are way down, visits to hospital. Europe has almost a 50% greater excess mortality rate than the United States. They're liking to compare us to Europe. 50% greater excess mortality rate. Our early and aggressive action saved millions of lives through Operation Warp Speed. You've heard about it, they don't want to talk about it. What we've done in a record period of time with the ventilators, now we're building ventilators for the world. Very hard to do. We'll develop and distribute a vaccine very, very shortly in record time, it would have been two or three years, four years, if Biden's group had done it, but we've done a great job with the FDA in clearing a path and you'll be seeing it very shortly. And these are great companies that are doing it. So we'll crush the virus and our opponents will, with him, they will crush America. We can't let it happen. This country is too great. Our love of each other is too great. This guy doesn't know he's alive. He really doesn't. He doesn't know he's alive. He did an ad on an anonymous source that said about me making a statement about military soldiers that died. And it was such a disgusting thing. I said, "The only good thing about it is now I can take the gloves off." This guy doesn't have a clue. He doesn't know where the hell he is and they'll give him a shot of something. I don't know, he's going to get something. Because I watched him so badly, he performed so badly in the debates, and then with Bernie, he was average, not great, but he got through and I said, "What the hell is he taking?" And we'd like to ask him. And I said that, "We want a drug test, we want a drug test. We'll both take it. We'll both take it." Because with Bernie he was able to get through. But listen, it wasn't Winston Churchill. This wasn't the greatest, but he got through, it was fine. Him and Bernie screaming at each other, mostly Bernie. Crazy Bernie. He's not too happy. I'll tell you, did you ever see a better loser than Bernie though? Seriously. He's a good loser. He got terribly treated by Hillary and that group. And then it happened again with Elizabeth Warren, right? It happened again. What the Democrat party did to him. And then you have this guy, Mike Bloomberg, mini Mike, one question and he was gone. There goes 1.8 billion out their window. I said, "You think it's easy up here, Mike, don't ya?" One question and that was the end. He said, "Where am I? Get me the hell off of this platform." Mini Mike, mini Mike. So now he's trying to buy into the party. You would think after the way they treated him, they called him every name, Pocahontas destroyed him, she didn't do good against me, but boy did she do good against Mini Mike. I figured he'd be calling and saying, "Listen, I want to become a Republican." We've done great for the economy, you'd think. But he always wanted to run for president, and he tried before, I guess, but he tried and it was a bad experience. And you would think he would have joined our party. But instead he's trying to buy his way back in. When somebody treats you that way, even stay neutral, don't go back in. He wants to give them a lot of money to try and buy their friendship. And one thing you learned about politics, I spent a fraction of the money that crooked Hillary spent. They raised $2 billion. I spent my own money, but I spent a fraction of the money… I spent my own money, but I spent a fraction of the money, like 35%, 30%, and we won. Nobody ever says that. It's not about money. It's about other things. There are other things involved. It's not just about money. In the old days, my father would teach me, "If you can win and spend less, that's a good thing." I remember after I won and I won decisively look, 306 to 223. That's a lot. 306 delegates, 306, that's decisive. We won Michigan and we're going to win it again. We're up in a poll just now. Oh, they're going crazy. They're going crazy. We won Wisconsin. We won Pennsylvania. But my father taught me. He said, "If you can win and spend less money, that's a good thing, not a bad thing. That's a good thing, not a bad thing." Like if you get along with the leaders of other lands and don't go to war all the time with everybody and can come out on top without having to shed blood all over the place and destroy your families and your country, like when I get along with Putin, when I get along with Kim Jong-un. Whatever happened to the war we were supposed to be in with North Korea? Nothing happened. They said I gave away so much. I said, "What did I give away?" They couldn't find that anything. I didn't do anything. They said, "You met." "Oh, I met. Oh, okay. I met." Now you would have been in war with her. You would have been in war. But if you can spend, think of this, if you can spend less money and win, that's a good thing. So after I won one of these people back there, right back there- … in order to keep the thing going on Trump, I had won, he said, "But Trump raised substantially less money than crooked Hillary Clinton." That's because I didn't need the money. I didn't need the money. I can call up a lot of rich guys that raised a lot of money, but I feel uncomfortable doing it because when you do that, it's like you're sort of … It's not the same. I could call up every guy. They call me up and they say, "Sir, how are you, sir? Mr. President, sir." I have friends see. I don't have too many friends up because I used to be comfortable. You have to be comfortable with people, right? I have friends, I have one friend, Richard. I talk about him all the time, but multiply this times a hundred people. Richard used to call me up five, six years ago. "Hey, let's have dinner." "All right. Where do you want to go?" "I don't know. Go to some crazy restaurant." Today the restaurants are all closed in New York. They don't want to open them. They want to make them do badly until November but don't worry, they're opening in November 4th. But it's true. So, it's Richard on the phone, Richard, my friend for many, many years. I said, "Hey Richard, how are you doing?" "Mr. President sir, how are you?" I said, "Well … " He's been calling Donnie and Don and DJ, and all. "Richard, are you okay? Everything good?" "Yes, sir. Mr. President, sir. You're doing a great job and I'd like to thank you." "Good, Richard. Richard, loosen up please. You don't have to call me Mr. Parson." I said, "Just call me Donald. It's okay." "Thank you Donald. I really appreciate it." And you hear the guy can't breathe. He's having a hard time breathing. He's very nervous. Then at the end of the phone, he goes, "Mr. President again, thank you so much for the job you do," and he hangs up. I said, how can you be friends with … ? It just doesn't work. It's like, I've lost a lot of people this way. It's called respect for the office. They have respect for the office. They really do. Nothing wrong with it. I sort of understand that. They have respect for the office. Nobody has more respect for this offices than I do. That's why I'm doing a great job, and I'll always do a great job. It's respect for the office. But on November 3rd, Pennsylvania, will decide whether we end the pandemic, defeat the virus and return to record prosperity just like we were before, or whether we allow sleepy Joe Biden, who doesn't have a clue, to kill the recovery, raise your taxes, delay the vaccine. So he wants to impose a $4 trillion tax. Do you believe? 4 trillion. Ban American energy, which means what? Hey, let's go back. Let's call up the Middle East and let's be real nice to them because we need their energy. No, thank you. Destroy your suburbs. You know, I got rid of this regulation that was going to destroy your suburbs. Destroy your suburbs. I call it the Obama Regulates. They're building nice projects right next to your beautiful home. Lots of luck. Give free healthcare. I hope the people in the suburbs … When I did this, I took a lot of heat. I got rid of a regulation. They all said, "Sir, we'll amend the regulation. We're going to amend it." I said, "I don't want to amend it." A couple of stories where written. I wish the women living in the suburbs would read these stories. They were written by people that say, "I can't believe a president had the guts to do it." I did because I want to save the American dream. By the way, a big part of the American dream are minorities who made it and they want to live in the suburbs and they don't want to be next to a project. Remember? Sleepy Joe. He'll do it because he has no choice because they have total power. He's like a puppet for them and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies. To combat the toxic left wing propaganda in our schools, I announced last week that we are launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called 1776 Commission. We will teach our children the truth about America, that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth and getting better every single day. We're not going to let it fail. The Democrat party has joined forces with flag burners, anarchists, anti-police people, they're extremist. Agitators. And then they say, "Oh no, no, this was a peaceful protest. This is a peaceful protest." They know what I'm talking about. They know our great uniform. Brilliant. We love them, but you know what? We call it a peaceful protest now, because the only thing you're allowed to do in Pennsylvania, can't go to church, right? You can't meet, you can't congregate. You can't look at each other. You can't give your wife a kiss goodnight. You've got to wear a mask. You can't do anything. They got you closed up. "Don't go out to dinner, stay where you are." Michigan, same thing like the governor. Her husband went boating. It was a disaster because nobody's allowed. He was the only boat. He had this massive, beautiful lake. You know the lake I'm talking about. It's a big lake. They've got to be able to do their job. You've got to let them do their job. Got to be able to do your job, right? They let you do your job, you'd see. You'd see Pennsylvania, not some big, bad crime numbers in your state. You let them do your job. Any state, New York's finest. By the way, I got endorsed by New York's finest. First time they've ever endorsed. And you know that's hard when you have radical left running the city, all politicians, the mayor. I got endorsed by the Chicago Police. Can you imagine that? I got endorsed by Oklahoma and I got endorsed by Texas and Louisiana. I got endorsed by Florida, the sheriffs. All the sheriffs got together, they endorsed Trump. I got endorsed by law enforcement, everybody. But how could you possibly endorse people that hate you and don't respect the job you do, and don't let you do your job most importantly? Because if they let you do what you do better than anybody else in the world, you wouldn't have problems. These are other police departments. You look at Seattle. We said we're going in, and they immediately said, "We'll put up our hands." It was so easy. We were going in the following day. You look at Portland. How about Portland? It's like an anarchist's dream. We're dealing with the governor, because you know, I hate to say it, but they're all Democrat-run cities and states. All of them, every single one. The Republicans are doing great, but they have to ask. By law, they have to ask us to go in. But do you remember that beautiful day? It was 10 days late. You had these people from CNN and other places. "These are friendly protests." That's a lovely thing to say. As he's getting rocks and cans of tuna fish. They go out to buy tuna fish and soup. You know that, right? Goya. I hope Goya, he's great, isn't he? Good guy. They go out and buy Goya because they throw it. They throw it. It's the perfect weight, tuna fish they can really rip it, and that hits you. No, it's true. Bumblebee brand tuna, and you can throw it at soccer, you can a curve on it. You can do whatever else you want. The cops in Chicago, you saw, they're going like this. It was terrible. They're not allowed to fight back. They're not allowed to fight back. These guys if they fight back, nobody's going to be there very long throwing things. But they're professionals, they're anarchists. They're paid for by outside stupid rich people that … They're stupid people. By the way, you know the first ones that get wiped out? They don't have a shot by the way, I'll tell you that, but if they ever did, the first ones that would get wiped out are the stupid people that gave them the money to do this stuff. Those are the people that would get wiped out. But you know, they're very smart. Everything is perfect. Do you ever see where they drop the bricks along the thing in a bag? Then they drop, everyone picks them up, throws them at our great police. We're not going to let that stuff happen, but this is all a Democrat. It doesn't happen with Republicans. I was with Greg Abbott. I was with Ron DeSantis, Texas and Florida and other governors that can't even believe a thing like that could happen, but they get caught. They're walking up. There're like 30 cans of soup. They have like 25 cans of tuna. They get caught. "I'm bringing this home to my family. How dare you stop me?" No, no, no. They use it as ammunition. It's terrible shame. But he went down and he didn't like it. He was hit. "Police brutality." You remember that? They walked in, and they've got the tear gas. They've got everything you can possibly have. Pepper spray. They don't want you to use tear gas anymore. In some places like I think in Milwaukee, they said no tear gas, no pepper spray. How the hell do you keep big crowds back? You can't. So the police all quit. They all quit. They said, "We can't do it." But you remember, they went out and you had one, then you had two, three, four, then you had five, six, seven. All of a sudden they started pouring in. They were getting off the buses. They came from a different locale, and then you had a line of them and there was no social distancing unfortunately. In fact, I was going to turn them in because they were right next to each other. They were right next to each other. They were touching arms and they had big, strong arms like these guys right over here. There were big strong guys. That's all right. They were like together. Then you saw the first line. Then you saw the second line, then you saw a third line, and then you saw a fourth line. Then they said, "March." They never halted. Just walked right through, cleaned everything up, and Minneapolis was cured. They were cured. They grabbed them. They grabbed them. They grabbed them. They were grabbing them left and right. Sometimes they grabbed, they grabbed one guy, "I'm a reporter. I'm a reporter." "Get out of here." They throw him aside like he was a little bag of popcorn. But no, but I mean, honestly, when you watch the crap that we've all had to take so long, when you see that, it's actually … You don't want to do that, but when you see it, it's actually a beautiful sight. It's a beautiful sight. Behind him was like 10 blocks of fire was … I'd never. It's a classic. I don't know. Anybody, you know what I'm talking about? Is it … So, I just have such respect, but you have to let these great professionals do what they do best. You have to let them do what they … It's called law and order. We need law and order. So, Democrat phenomena. If they win, Sleepy Joe, if they win, because he has no power over these people, these people are crazed lunatics. If they win, your cities will be like this. You'll lose all rights. Your constitution will be worthless. It'll be a terrible, terrible thing. I'm not even sure that, after some time listening to that and going along with it, I'm not even sure the country can ever recover. That's how bad it would be. I'm not sure it could ever recover. Over Labor Day. Left-wing radicals rampaged through Pittsburgh, harassing diners at restaurants. I saw that one. That was horrible. No, I saw that, right? I saw that. That one guy grabs a woman, a older woman, she's eating a steak. He grabbed the steak and started eating it, then he threw it back on the plate. An outdoor place, and her husband standing there like they're afraid for their lives. It was a terrible thing, and should never be allowed to happen. A thing like that should just be closed up before it ever gets started. That was terrible. Remember that? An older woman. Last week after a police officer shot a knife-wielding assailant, over 100 rioters rampaged in Lancaster. Went to school right nearby. Looting businesses, setting fires and assaulting police offices with rocks and bricks and glass. You saw that. Joe Biden has the support of violent left wing extremists. He never once mentioned the words law and order during their entire Democrat National Convention. Never once. They didn't talk about the riots, they didn't talk about anything having to do with law and order and respect and our great police. They didn't do it. They didn't talk about it. It's not a subject. They will rip your cities apart and they will go to your suburbs for all of those people in the suburbs that are ready to go about, they will go to your suburbs next. I have the support of America's law enforcement heroes. I was recently honored to be endorsed by the largest group of police and police representatives in the country. We're endorsed by everybody. We're joined by Butler County Mike Slupe. Thank you, Mike, as well as two sheriffs who just changed their registrations, oh that's nice, to become Republicans. They were long time Democrats. Who are those two showers? Wow. Thank you. It's Fayette County Sheriff James Custer and Forest County Sheriff, Bob Wolfgang. Where's Bob? Stand up, fellows. Thank you. Were you long time Democrats? How the hell did that happen? Well, this is somewhat of a phenomena. This is somewhat … This is crazy what's going on now. It can be stopped so easily, and you guys know exactly what I'm talking about. Thank you very much. It's an honor to have you in the party. Thank you. That's great. There's a whole great group of sheriffs and law enforcement here. Also, with us, our Congressman Guy Russian Reschenthaler. Guy. Where's Guy? Great warrior. Where are they sitting? And a friend of mine and a warrior. He's a warrior. He's tough as hell. They said, "We want to impeach the president for making a perfect phone call." Oh, did you hear today? They want to impeach me again. They said, if I submit the name of one of the most talented people in the world to be a justice of the Supreme Court, they want to impeach me. They want to impeach me if I'm following the constitution. No, think of it. This is crazy Nancy. These people are stonecold crazy. Think of it. I got impeached for making a perfect phone call. Perfect phone call. Everybody read it. Nobody to this day … and the Republicans stuck together. It was great. Also, a friend of mine and he wanted to just rip them apart, I remember when he heard about it. He's a rough guy and he's a popular guy too. They love him. Congressman Mike Kelly. Thank you, Mike. Come on up here. Come on up here. Just come up. Come on up. Mike, come up. Come on. Guy, come up. Congressmen Glenn Thompson, Congressman Dan Muser, come on. And Congressman Scott Perry. Thank you, Mike. Hey Mike, good shape. Come on, get up there. Oh what a group. What a group. Thank you. He's the real deal. Conor lamb is just a puppet for Nancy Pelosi and crying Chuck Schumer. You know crying Chuck? He cries every time he thinks it's appropriate. Now, I'll tell you what. This Conor lamb turned out to be a stonecold phony. When he was running … It's a very Trump … they like me. I thought he was a Republican because his ads were so good. "We have to respect our president. We have … " I said, "This guy's doing some beautiful ads," and then I found out he was a Democrat. I'll tell you what. He's nothing compared to Sean. Sean is the real deal. Thank you so much. Just give a little hand, because he's done a hell of a job too. Our campaign chair, Bernie Comfort. Thank you, Bernie. Bernie Comfort. Thank you. Thank you to Bernie Comfort. Thanks, Bern. All right. While you guys are standing behind me like a beautiful curtain there … Well they're not blocking Air Force One so we could … But I have a woman with us tonight who has devoted so much. She gave up her business. She said, "Dad, I'm going to come to Washington and help you. I love you daddy, and we're going to help people. I don't care and … " She was very successful in every way, and it's my daughter Ivanka. I just want to thank this group of people. And a man that helped, we just negotiated a major peace deal in the Middle East. Everyone said it was impossible. You know that, right? They said it's impossible. They've been killing everybody for years and years, they had this guy, John Kerry, who's grossly incompetent. They paid $150 billion to Iran, they paid 1.8 billion in cash. That's even more impressive, frankly, in cash, that's John Kerry. And we just made a deal with Bahrain and UAE, United Arab Emirates, and Israel, and it's a great thing. And the man right there, Jared, the abuse, the abuse he takes, but he did something that nobody's been able to do, and he wants none of the glory, he'd rather not come up here. These guys will come up 100%. Jared, great deal, great job. Incredible. Everyone's talking about it. We have plenty of other countries going to join and there's no blood in the sand. Okay. Thanks honey. Thank you. Great people. Thank you, Sean. Thank you, Sean. We have spent the last four years reversing the damage that Joe Biden inflicted over the last 40. They like Sean. Sean, will you please win? Sean Parnell. I'll tell you, he's popular. That's great, Sean. We love Sean. But Biden championed every globalist portrayal of Pennsylvania for half a century, he was a cheerleader for the worst trade deal ever made by any country, NAFTA and China's entry into the world trade organization, which built China like a rocket ship. They were flat lined for many, many decades and then right through the roof, that was a Biden approval. These disasters ripped out one third of your state's manufacturing jobs. You know what happened. Biden shouldn't be asking for your vote, he should be begging for your forgiveness. He did a terrible job. Now the Democrat party is pledging to rejoin the disastrous Paris Climate Accord. You want to spend a lot of money for nothing? Eviscerating your state's economy, you will spend a trillion dollars and what it is really, it takes away your power, it takes away your energy. You'll be closing your plants and factories all over the place. I withdrew from it. And you know what, the people that understand, the smart people, they said, "I can't believe you had the guts to do it." And I figured I was going to be absolutely killed on this one. And you know what, I'm so proud I did it and people get it. It was a rip off of the United States. I withdrew from the catastrophe because I was elected to fight for Pittsburgh, not for Paris. This election is a choice between Pennsylvania and China, if Biden wins, China wins. When we win, Pennsylvania wins and America wins. For decades, our politicians spent trillions of dollars rebuilding foreign nations, fighting foreign wars that never ended and defending foreign borders. But now we're finally protecting our nation, rebuilding our cities and we are bringing our jobs, our factories, and our troops, back home in the USA where they belong. All coming home. During the pandemic, I've suspended the entry of foreign workers who threatened American jobs. As our economy reopens, I want to ensure that Americans are first in line to get the great jobs and the high wages. America first. Biden wants to flood the economy with cheap labor to replace US workers. You know that. And that's why never, never, I see his say, hire American. He got it for me, all the words he's got there, are my words, right? Do you ever see it? They say he copied my campaign. I keep saying, what the hell happened for 47 years and now he's copying my campaign. As president … and you know it's not going to happen with him, as president, I know my first duty is always to take care of you, the American worker. That's what we're taking care of. Under my administration, we've achieved the most secure border in US history and we are finishing that wall, it's going to be done so fast. It's got to be done so fast. Since 2017 ICE has successfully arrested nearly a half a million illegal aliens with criminal records, including over 145,000 assaults, 40,000 sex offenses and 5,000 murderers. If you don't mind, Democrats will bring them the hell out of our country, we'll get them out of here. Some of them are so violent, we have to keep them. We don't want to house them for 50 years, but if we let them go, they come back in, as much as we watch. If they come back in, we don't want it, we don't want them. So we keep them here, we have no choice. If the left gains power, they will abolish … Republicans will always … they're going to abolish. Republicans will always stand with these incredible heroes of ICE and border patrol. You have to see these ICE people. They go into a den of MS13, and they call them a den, a nest, where you have these guys that are vicious, vicious gang members. And they go in there, they just start swinging. It's the craziest thing, they love it. Now, who wants that job? Do you want that job? Look, he's a tough guy sitting here, you too, you're tough guys, you don't want any part of it. They're just incredible and they love our country. They love our country. And then people say, " Oh, they're too rough. They're too rough." You have no idea how bad some of these gangs are and what they do. They use knives because it's more painful. They cut people up. They cut two young, beautiful girls, 16 years old. They were going home from school and they cut them to pieces, killed them, they're animals. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military and launched the first new branch of the US armed forces in 75 years, space force. Not since the air force. Think of it, the air force was last. If I did just that, space force big deal, by the way, it's going to end up being one of the most important things you've ever imagined. But if I just did that, a sixth branch of the US military, that would be a big deal. That's like one of many, many things. We passed VA choice and VA accountability. We killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, they were after him for a year. We took out the world's number one terrorist and the mass murderer of American troops and many others. Qasem Soleimani is gone. I withdrew from the last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal, one of the great disasters. And by the way, it's practically expired. The crazy deal that Obama made practically expired. And his chief negotiator, he never left. " I want this." "Nope. We're not giving to you." "Okay, let's go on to the next one. Give me this." "Nope." "Give me this." "Nope." "Give me this." "Nope." He never won a point, he lost everything. It's the worst deal I've ever seen. And the only time he left the table is to go on a bicycle ride and he crashed and broke his leg and his arm. And I promised everybody I would never go riding in a bicycle race. I swear to you. I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem. I also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. That was a 52 year development that I got done in about a day. They'd been negotiating that sovereignty over the Golan Heights, I got it done immediately. 52 years, they worked on that. But instead of endless war, we are forging peace in the Middle East. It's so great. Peace in the Middle East. So Biden's put forward a platform that would end America as we know it. And this is true. I don't think of him as a radical lefty, but basically he's controlled by them. And what about this Kamala? How about her? She at 15%, no, she's at 13%. Then people started … no she's at 12. No, she's at 10. She's at nine, she's at seven. These are a poll numbers. She got worse than worse. She quit before she ever got to Iowa. We have a great vice president, Mike Pence. He's great and he says hello. If elected, Biden would destroy social security and destroy protections for preexisting conditions, people with preexisting conditions, drain your Medicare by giving away your healthcare to illegal immigrants. They're all going to come in. If you have that, the problem is we're going to give you healthcare, they're going to all pour into the United States and our country can't afford it. We want to be nice, we all have hearts, country can't afford it. They would get people that never even thought of coming if they see that. Can't do it. They would end our travel bans on jihadist regions. We have very strong … remember I got travel bans. Everyone thought it was such a terrible thing, such a terrible person. He's such a terrible person. I'm such a bad guy, I got travel bans. And increase refugee admissions by more than 700%, opening the flood gates to radical Islamic terrorism. Ban school choice and all charter schools, they're very important. In the second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans. All Americans, race, color, creed, all Americans. So in conclusion, over the next four years, we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China, once and for all. We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States, right here in Pennsylvania. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults or law enforcement and we will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We'd ban them. We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. Thank you. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens and we will keep America out of endless, ridiculous, stupid foreign wars. We losing our youth to countries that you'd never even heard of, right? Never even heard of them. We will maintain America's unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. We will surprise, think of the surprise medical billing, we're going to end it, surprise. You ever walk into a hospital, oh, gee, fix you up. Oh, great. Then you get a bill for $2,000 for a band-aid. We will end surprise medical billing, require price transparency, which I've already signed and brilliantly starts on January 1st. Hey, you better vote for me. You know, I think that's, in a way, bigger than healthcare. Can you imagine Biden if he won? Price transparency is so big, it's all done, it starts on January 1st. How smart is that? How smart. And you're going to see numbers and reductions like you've never seen. Could you imagine if he were president, "Sir, our medical costs have dropped in half price. Transparency has been unbelievable." "What is that? What is price transparency?" And they'll explain it to him. He still won't have a clue. But can you imagine giving him credit? I signed it, it's all done. It starts on January 1st. I say, "Why can't you start it now, just in case?" And know what they said, "Sir, statutorily, it has to start then." I said, "All right, let's go." But I know we're going to win, so it's not going to matter. And we're going to further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs. We have a favored nations laws, well now we get the same price as all these nations that are paying a tiny fraction, which should have been instituted a long time ago. And the drug companies are going after me with those ads. Oh, it's terrible, terrible. You know why? Just every time you see an add from the drug company, they got plenty of money, that's why nobody ever fights them. Anytime you see an ad from a drug company, just remember one thing, your drug prices are coming down. That's what it means. That's what it means. We will strongly protect Medicare and social security and we will always protect patients. We will protect every single patient. America will land, by the way, the first woman on the moon and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. You know, NASA was an absolute disaster, grass was growing through the fairways too. They had fairways, that's about all they use, were the fairways. And now we have something, right through the runways, the landing strips, it was all grass infested, it was all weed infested, and now it's the number one space center in the world, by far. It was a closed up mess. And we have rich guys sending up rockets, Elon and others. They send up rockets and we say, let them keep going. Let them keep spending money on these rockets. They love rockets. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriotic education to our schools. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words in our national motto, in God, we trust. For years you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the people of Pennsylvania, like nobody has ever stood up before. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and your coworkers, and get out and vote And early voting, if you didn't know it, has already begun and watch it and watch those fake ballots, you got to go out and turn them in. If you see somebody cheating, you got to turn them in, from Erie … and you probably will, it's going to be a mess, watch this. But get out and vote early. From Erie to Eastern, from Altoona to Scranton, from Harrisburg to right here in Pittsburgh. Say hello to big Ben. We stand on the shoulders of Pennsylvania patriots who gave their blood, sweat, and tears for their beloved country. This is the state where our founding fathers declared American independence, right? This is the state. Such history, such history. It's where the army, weathered it's brutal winter at Valley Forge, I know it well. Where George Washington led his men on a daring mission across the Delaware and where our union was saved by the heroes of Gettysburg. Gettysburg, one of the great, great, incredible sights of history, Gettysburg. So vicious, so horrible and yet so beautiful and so historic, right? Incredible. Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. This is the place where generations of tough, strong Pennsylvania workers, mine the coal, work the railroads, forge the steel that made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of the world. And we are making it greater, greater, greater than ever before. Not even close, not even close, it's what we're doing, we're doing it together. Proud citizens like you, helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people, with your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together with the incredible people of Pennsylvania, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you, Pennsylvania. Thank you.Hello, Houston. I am so thrilled to be here in the great state of Texas with one of America's greatest, most devoted and most loyal friends, Prime Minister Modi of India. Thank you. Thank you. And Prime Minister Modi is doing a truly exceptional job for India and for all of the Indian people. It is my immense privilege to be here with him today at this profoundly historic event. We're especially grateful to be joined by over 50,000 incredible members of our nation's thriving, prospering, flourishing, and hardworking Indian American community. Thank you. Just a few months ago in the largest democratic election in the history of our world, 600 million Indians went to the polls and voted overwhelmingly for Prime Minister Modi and his party. Congratulations, Mr. Prime Minister. That's a lot of people. Earlier this week, I understand you marked another important milestone. I know everyone here joins me in wishing you a very happy birthday. Happy birthday. I want to take a moment to address every resident of Houston effected by the recent horrible flooding. The entire American nation is standing by your side. We're ready. We love you. We support you. We will be there with you every single step of the way. I just left the Coast Guard hanger at Ellington Field Joint Reserve Base where I was briefed on the Texas flooding. We're working with your great governor Greg Abbott, Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick, Attorney General Ken Paxton and senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz. Thank you very much. We're working hard together. My administration will not rest until you have fully recovered, restored, and rebuilt and I know you will come back with the same tremendous spirit that we have shown every single time, every time there's been a problem. It's called "Houston strong." Prime Minister Modi and I have come to Houston to celebrate everything that unites America and India, our shared dreams and bright futures. I've also come to express my profound gratitude to the nearly 4 million amazing Indian Americans all across our country. You enrich our culture, you uphold our values, you uplift our communities and you are truly proud to be American and we are proud to have you as Americans. We thank you, we love you and I want you to know my administration is fighting for you each and every day. I want to recognize US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster and Minister Jaishankar of India. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Thank you very much. Thank you. We're also proudly joined by NASA Deputy Administrator Jim Morhard, Deputy Secretary Of Energy Dan Brouillette, Governor Matt Bevin of Kentucky, your state attorney general, Ken Paxton, a couple of very great senators. Kevin, thank you. Thank you all for being here. Thank you, Kevin. Thank you. We have a lot of senators. We have a lot of Congress people. There's Mr. Brady, Congressman Brady. He gave us a very, very nice tax cut folks. Thank you, Kevin, very much. Thank you all for being here. Among the leaders here today for this remarkable celebration are many members of the House and Senate. They're all over the audience, including House majority leader, Steny Hoyer, and again, senators Cornyn, Cruz. In my campaign for president, I promised all of that. If we were elected, India would have a true and great friend in the White House and I can tell you, you have never had a better friend as president that President Donald Trump. That I can tell you. The prime minister knows that. On this day, I'm happy to report that the relationship between the United States and India is stronger than ever before. The ties between our two nations are grounded in our common values and our shared commitment to democracy. We are free nations with great faith and a fierce devotion to our national independence. We are governed by the rule of law, guided by commitment to justice, and strengthened by our love of liberty. Our two national constitutions both begin with the same three beautiful words, "We the People." That means that in America AMD India alike, we honor, respect, trust, empower and fight for the citizens we proudly serve. Under Prime Minister Modi's leadership, the world is witnessing a strong sovereign and thriving Republic of India. In a single decade, with the help of Prime Minister Modi's pro-growth reforms, India has lifted nearly 300 million people out of poverty and that is an incredible number. Incredible. That's incredible. In the next decade, 140 million Indian households will rise to the middle class. In both India and the United States, we're seeing something really remarkable. Our people are prospering like never before because we are slashing bureaucracy and cutting job killing red tape. In the United States, thanks to our massive tax cuts and all of our great senators and congressmen and women that are here today and pro worker policies, our economy is breaking one record after another. Since my election, we have created over 6 million new jobs. We have created over 750,000 jobs right here in Texas and very importantly, that includes 70,000 new Texas manufacturing jobs. They said that couldn't be done. Unemployment … Think of this. Unemployment in Texas is currently at the lowest rate ever recorded in the history of our country, and unemployment in the United States has just reached the lowest level in over 51 years and very soon we think that will be broken to be a historic number. Unemployment among African Americans, Asian Americans, and Hispanic Americans have all reached their lowest levels in the history of our country. Over the last two years, the unemployment rate among Indian Americans dropped by nearly 33 and one third percent. Wages are rising, incomes are soaring, and inequality is falling at the fastest rate in many, many years. In the past 12 months alone, the average worker has taken home $1,000 extra in rising wages and over $3,000 with tax cuts and all of the other things that we've done. And for the first time in history, most new hires of prime working age are minorities and women. First time that's ever happened. Through our pledge to America's workers, we have secured commitments for nearly 14 million employment and training opportunities for American workers done through our great American companies. We passed the biggest tax cuts and the biggest tax reforms in the history of our country. We slashed a record number of job killing regulations, giving the average American household more than $3,000 every year and never in the history of our country, no matter how long the presidency, have regulations been cut to this extent. Everyday, the Indian American community is helping to strengthen our country and build our future. Indian Americans are pioneering groundbreaking medicines to save countless lives. They're developing revolutionary technology that is changing the world and they're founding new businesses that provide jobs to thousands of our fellow citizens. Prime Minister Modi, I look forward to working with you to make our nations even more prosperous than ever before. And that's what's happening. The economic miracles taking place today are just beginning. Here in the United States, there has never been a better time to hire, invest, grow, and pursue your dreams. Indian companies employ tens of thousands of Americans across a range of industries, including American steel. In 2018 India's JSW Steel announced that it would invest up to $500 million to revitalize a shuttered steel plant in the great state of Ohio. And we welcome India's growing investments right here in the Lone Star State. Nations around the world are investing in the United States because they know we have the best economy and the best workers in the world. They have never invested in our country like they are today. And we want to thank everybody and India has never invested in the United States like it is doing today. And I want to say it's reciprocal because we're doing the same thing in India. On Tuesday, two Japanese companies, Toyota and Aisin, announced a combined investment of almost $800 million, which will create over 900 new jobs right here in Texas. At the same time, we are working to expand American exports to India, one of the world's fastest growing markets. We are committed to ensuring the Indian people have access to the finest goods in the world, product stamped with a beautiful phrase, "Made in the USA." And very soon, India will have access to another world class American product, NBA basketball. Wow, sounds good. That sounds good. Next week thousands of people will gather in Mumbai to watch the first ever NBA basketball game in India. Am I invited, Mr. Prime Minister? I may come. Be careful. I may come. When it comes to expanding our commercial relationship, no issue is more important than energy security. For the first time ever, the United States is the number one producer of both oil and natural gas on planet earth and number one by far, with much of it coming right here from the great state of Texas. That means more jobs, higher wages, and lower prices at the pump. Yesterday, we were thrilled to hear about the Indian company Petronas pledge to purchase up to 5 million tons of LNG per year from the United States, which could lead to billions of dollars of LNG exports to India in the coming years. And we have plenty of it. Over the last year, crude exports to India have grown by 400% and liquefied natural gas exports continue to soar at record numbers. Thank you. These tremendous exports not only expand employment in America, but they increase freedom and security for India. To keep our nation safe, the United States and India forging an even stronger security partnership. US defense sales to India have also reached $18 billion over the past decade. We make the greatest defense mechanisms and equipment anywhere in the world and India knows that well. We're looking forward to concluding several new defense deals very soon. There are a lot of them in the works. Here in America, we're creating the United States Space Force and we're working closely with India to enhance space cooperation. In November, the United States and India will demonstrate a dramatic progress of our defense relationship, holding the first ever tri-service military exercise between our nations. It's called Tiger Triumph. Good name, it's a good name. Very good name. Today, we honor all of the brave American and Indian military service members who work together to safeguard our freedom. We stand proudly in defense of liberty and we are committed to protecting innocent civilians from the threat of radical Islamic terrorism. Thank you. Both India and the United States also understand that to keep our communities safe, we must protect our borders. Since taking office, my administration has launched a far-reaching effort to improve screening and vetting of applications for entry. We are working hard to ensure that those who would threaten our security are denied admission into our country and we are enhancing our vetting efforts like- … country, and we are enhancing our vetting efforts like never before, not even close. We're doing it on a daily basis, and we'll soon be setting records in every one of the aspects of border security. Border security is vital to the United States. Border security is vital to India. We understand that. We are further taking unprecedented action to finally secure our southern border and stop illegal immigration. I want to thank the president of Mexico, who right now has 27,000 soldiers on our southern border. It's been incredible what's taken place in a short period of time. Illegal immigration is deeply unfair to millions of wonderful legal immigrants who work hard, pay their taxes, follow our rules, and obey our laws. Yet there are those in Washington who would raid your healthcare to … Free benefits. They want to fund free benefits to those who enter our country illegally. We don't want to do that. We don't want to do that. Because if we don't do it, they won't come. I will never allow politicians to take away your healthcare or give it to illegal immigrants. My administration believes our first duty is to the highest loyalty of all. We must always be for the American people, whether it's African-American, Hispanic-American, Indian-American. We are going to take care of our citizens first. We are going to take care of our Indian-American citizens before we take care of illegal immigrants that want to pour into our country. We want to build a nation where every family, immigrant and US-born, can live in a safe community with access to great school, work in a job you love, and have the best chance to reach the American dream. We love the American dream. Just in concluding, I want to say that America has always been a nation of pioneers and patriots, risk-takers and free thinkers, and dedicated workers who have honed a trade, mastered their field, and teach their children to always give their very, very best. Every day Indian-Americans help write the story of American greatness, and everyone here today has a crucial part to play in building an even grander and greater American and Indian future. To help achieve that exciting vision, we are strengthening our cherished bonds with the nation of India, and we are proving the awesome power of democracy and unlimited potential of free people. Together, we will continue to deepen the ties between our nations. We will honor the faith of dignity of our citizens, and we will achieve incredible advancements for our people, for our children, and for the world. We will discover new cures and save millions of lives. We will advance cutting-edge technologies and lift millions and millions of people out of poverty. We will pioneer new frontiers in space, working together, raising the sights of humanity. We will uphold our values, defend our liberty, and control our destiny. The United States and India will make our nations stronger, our people wealthier, our dreamers bigger, and our future brighter than ever before, and it won't even be close. I want to thank everybody for being here. I want to especially thank a great man and a great leader, the leader of India, Prime Minister Modi, my friend. Thank you. God bless you all. God bless India, and God bless America. Thank you. Thank you. Now I would like to invite onto this stage in front of this incredible group of unbelievable people Prime Minister Modi, who's going to give us some of his wisdom. His wisdom is indeed great. Thank you all very much. It's been a great honor to be with you. Thank you. Thank you.What a crowd, what a crowd. Get those people over here. See me. Let them come over. What is a big crowd, it's always big. We want to win. We got to win. We want to save our country from the radical left, the radical left crazies. Thank you very much. And hello, North Carolina, hello, North Carolina. We love you, North Carolina. I'm thrilled to be in Fayetteville with thousands of loyal, hard working American patriots. And you know what's going to happen in 45 days from now, and you're watching those polls. They go up, up, up up. 45 days from now, we're going to win North Carolina. We're going to win four more years in the White House. As we meet tonight, our nation mourns the loss of a legal giant Supreme Court Justice, Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Her landmark rulings, fierce devotion to justice and her courageous battle against cancer inspire all Americans. You may agree. You may not disagree with her, but she was an inspiration to a tremendous number of people. I say, all Americans Justice Ginsburg's close relationship with a friend of ours, a friend of mine, Justice Scalia, is also a powerful reminder that we can disagree on fundamental issues while treating each other with decency, dignity, and respect. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family. Thank you very much. So Article II of our constitution says the president shall nominate justices of the Supreme Court. I don't think it can be any more clear, can it? I don't think so. I don't think so. What do you think, Thom? Thom Tillis, I don't think it can be any more clear. This can only happen in North Carolina. I hope you hear that back home. Look at all that press. That's a lot of press. That's a lot of fake news. Well, I hope they hear. So the chant, this is a new one. Fill that seat. This is the chant. This can only happen to me. Fill that seat. Now it says the president is supposed to fill the seat, right? And that's what we're going to do. We're going to fill the seat. With a great hat. I want to try one of those hats. I love that. No, think of it. 29 times, every single time nobody said, "Oh, let's not fill the seat." We won the election. Now then we have some senators that, forget it. Think of it, I won't say it. I won't say it, Susan. I won't say it, Susan. But Thom Tillis is with us. I can tell you that. Great. We have great Republican senators. We have great people and we have a great country. That's really, we have a great country. And we're going to keep it that way. So we win an election and those are the consequences. It's called fill that seat and that's what we're doing. The Supreme Court was a very central issue in both the 2016 presidential election and then the 2018 midterm elections where, by the way, I didn't run. We had a lot of people, a lot of people said, "Oh, he really took a little bit of a shellacking." Not nearly as bad as others. In fact, we gained seats in the Senate, but they never talk about that. They don't talk about that. We gained two seats. Nobody talked about it. But we didn't run. And I had a lot of people that, "Sir, we'll never vote in 2018." I said, "No, no vote, everybody vote. They just didn't. I think we were like 9 million people decided they wanted to wait and they've waited and you see what's going on. You see what's happening. You see the enthusiasm that we have. Which, by the way, we set a record in 2016. The bad news for the Democrats is we are more enthusiastic now. Not even close, than we were in 2016. We are getting crowds and this is pandemic and we're rounding the turn. We're rounding the corner of the pandemic. But we're having them outside. And we shouldn't say this is some kind of a rally from now on. It's called a protest. We are protesters. We're going to call on our rallies that because you see a lot of these, let's call them blue states, we want to be nice. We're going to call it a protest against stupidity. So we are going to have protests against stupidity. And Pennsylvania. Look what they're doing in Pennsylvania. A great state, that's actually something very special is going to happen here, in Pennsylvania. That's a commonwealth. We always have to remember Pennsylvania, commonwealth. Got two of them and you better remember you get in trouble. But we love Pennsylvania. And it's a shut down. The governor's got it just shut down nice and tight. And you know what? On November 4th, it's going to be opened up. Because they're trying to hurt our numbers. But our economic numbers are so good. They're staggering. They're the best we've ever had. Jobs, retail, stock, market, everything. And this is with a lot of shutdowns by Democrats. That's all they're doing. On November 4th, they'll announce, "We've decided to open up." One of the teachers groups said, actually, one of the unions and one of the politicians in California said, "No, we're not going to do it. We need to do it. We should be open by November 4th." That was not a good thing for them to say. That person I think was fired, I think was fired. In both the 2016 and the 2018 elections, the American people chose a president and a Senate majority united in their commitment to selecting nominees who believe in applying the Constitution as written. Both the White House and the Senate majority have a moral duty to fulfill the promises they made to the voters. And that is exactly what we're going to do. We said that if for any reason, we have a vacancy on the United States Supreme Court, we will fill that vacancy. We're not going to say, and by the way, we have plenty of time. There's a lot of time. You're talking about January 20th. So we will uphold equal justice under the law for citizens of every race, color, religion, and creed. I won't be putting forth a nominee next week. It will be a woman. It will be a woman unless, wait, okay, let's do a poll. Oh, there they are. How many of these have you come to? Speaking of women, how many of, what is this number one? Like 90, they're great. North Carolina, though. I see them all over the place, they're great. Anyway, I hope your husbands are okay with it. Are they okay? They're okay. You have good husbands. But we're going to do a vote. So I said, I love these free polls because pollsters and most of the pollsters are corrupt as far as I'm concerned. If we believed in pollsters we wouldn't be here right now. But we're actually getting very good. We just had a 53 from Rasmussen, which is very good. Considering we won four years ago with a lot lower than 53. History has shown that when you're at 53 you can't lose an election. Has anyone ever lost an election with a 53? The answer is yes, when the other side cheats. That could happen, that could happen. That could happen. You saw what happened in Pennsylvania. Some state supreme court justice just ruled that they can take as long as they want to count the ballots. That means I'll be leading and winning Pennsylvania like we did last time. Yeah, yeah. We'll be leading, we'll be winning Pennsylvania. We're going to win it easy. We're going to win your state easily. And Deb, what a great, she's doing such a good job. But Mark, just a few months ago, I've been trying to get him for three years to leave and we have a great person running as you know. Really, I mean really great. Does everyone know Madison? Yes? You're going to vote for Madison? He's great. He's a great guy. But Mark had a beautiful head of black hair and I just noticed that hair's turning white very fast. But we're doing a job. We're very close to a great deal with TikTok, TikTok but nobody cares about that anymore. All they care about is fill that seat, right? Until about 24 hours ago, that's all they talked about is TikTok, TikTok. We have a deal worked out, I think with Walmart is going to buy it along with Oracle. Larry Ellison, it's going to be an incredible combination. And I said, "Do me a favor. Could you put up $5 billion into a fund for education so we can educate people as to real history of our country, the real history, not the fake history." Because we're getting very close to that deal. And all of the technology will be maintained here. They're going to move probably to the great state of Texas. Sorry, we got you a lot of business when it came… but they're going to move into the United States, which is what's important. They're moving to the United States, unbelievable company. They're going to have 25,000 jobs. If it all goes, I gave them the preliminary approval. But they're putting up $5 billion. And my only problem is they did it so fast. I should have asked for more. What happened is when I suggested they should put up a lot of money everybody said, senators, congressmen, women, everybody. They said, "You can't do that. That's never been done." That's the problem, nothing's ever been done. And we had other companies, a lot of people wanted it. And I said, "You got to put up $5 million either to the Treasury of the United States maybe or into some education fund or do something." And they were sort of agreeing with me. They thought it was okay. And then I went to the legal legals here and I said, "They're going to put up $5 million, give it to the United States." "Sir.,You can't do that. There's no provision." I said, "How the hell can there be no provision. We're making the deal possible. Why can't they give us $5 billion dollars?" That's b, that's a lot of money. Now, watch the crazy Democrats. They'll go, "They should have gotten more money." It's never been done before. They should have, no matter what you do. They should have gotten more. Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, crazy Nancy. But I'll tell you. And I said it last night, we had a great rally. Last night, you saw that in a place that we're going to win. We're going to win Minnesota. Hasn't been won since 1972. And they're all saying, "Well, we did give them back the big iron ore range." It was, Obama took it away with the stroke of a pen. He put everybody out of work. We gave it back. But I'll tell you what, we're going to have a victory on November 3rd, the likes of which you've never seen. Now we're counting on the federal court system to make it so that we can actually have an evening where we know who wins. Not where the votes are going to be counted a week later or two weeks later. But in just three and a half years under my administration, we've secured America's borders rebuilt the awesome power of the U.S military, think of that. And I shouldn't say this and the fake news keeps going, "Oh, he's given away classified information." No I'm not. We are building and we have built weapons the likes of which this world has never seen before. And I said that a week ago and it was a headline and one of these fake newspapers where, "He's giving away confidential information," these people are crazy. No, no. I'm just telling you that- Crazy. No, no. I'm just telling you that President Putin and President Xi of China, Russia, China, North Korea, everybody. They are so envious of what we're doing. They can't even believe it. If they know, they perhaps don't know. Under Obama, they knew immediately, okay. Under us, but we are building weapons, all made in the USA. The likes of which no country has ever seen before. And hope to God, we never have to use them. That's the key, I don't ever want to use them. Remember, I was supposed to be a guy that was going to get us into a war in the first week. Remember that? Where's the war? We're taking them out of Afghanistan. We're almost finished with that. Working along well. We're taking them out of Syria, other than I left some behind for the oil, we kept the oil, is it okay that we kept the oil? Is it okay we kept the oil? Let's go back to my poll. Ready? So we're putting, I think it should be a woman, because I actually like women much more than I like men, I have to say. No, I do. I do, I like women more. So I have to make a decision, to fill the seat, as we say, we should have a new campaign. Let's make a t-shirt, fill the seat. Okay? My people are so good, tomorrow, it'll be all over the place. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. Fill the seat. Okay watch this, so good tomorrow you'll see them all over the place, fill the seat. I don't know how the hell they do it, but they get it done fast. You remember I said, where's Hunter? Where's Hunter? The next day, it was like one of the biggest selling t- shirts where is Hunter? What the hell ever happened? He took the money and he ran I think. Where's Hunter? He took the money, he went to China, he took 1.5 billion. He had no experience. He didn't have a job until this guy became vice president. Then he went to China, he got $1.5 billion. I asked the head of a great company, Blackstone. One of the biggest in the world. I said, "Steve, let me ask you a question. Is that possible?" "No, that's never done." China doesn't do that. Well, how did a guy with no experience do this? He said, "Very simple. His father's vice president." Is that what you want? And then Ukraine, $183,000 a month, and a $3 million upfront payment for him and his friends, think of this, with no experience and no job, and they said, do you know energy? It's an energy company that paid it. Do you know energy? No, I don't. I've not familiar with the subject. Our great Congressman. Right? How the hell does this happen? I think it will be brought up into debate. I think it will be brought up in the debate, I think. Where is Hunter? Where is Hunter? You know where Hunter is? He's probably on the Riviera having a very good time. He's giving some great energy advice. He's learning. He's taking a night class on energy for 180 grand. Where is Hunter? They're corrupt. Remember Joe with a prosecutor? $ 1 billion, I'm not giving it to them until they get those prosecutors away from my son or whatever the hell he said, that crazy company over in Ukraine. $1 billion. I'm not giving it. You get them out. And guess what? They got them out. Here's your billion dollars. Now that's called quid pro quo. Right? That's the real deal. With us, there was none. They made it up. Remember when Shift made the phony speech? Eight times he said the same thing, except that's not what happened. Fortunately, we had those wonderful people that write every perfect word, every word. I'm glad we had them because we're dealing with a bunch of thieving bad people. So women and men, ready? Would you rather have a woman on the Supreme Court or would you rather have a man? Ready? A woman or a man. So, would you rather have me choose, this is a very scientific poll. Actually, it's a lot more accurate than these polls that interview like 97 people have been interviewed, then they charge you a million dollars and they probably don't interview the people. They sit behind their desk. Would you rather have a woman on the Supreme Court? Yes, woman. Yes? Tom tiller says yes. Or would you rather have a man on the Supreme Court? What's going on? Let's give it one more quick chance. This is a free poll. And this is a lot of people. This is tens of thousands of people. This is a lot of people. You know, the fake news, they'll say, "He had a smattering of people." If Bernie Sanders had a crowd. Oh, he had a massive crowd. It was so big. With me, my crowds are five times bigger than Bernie's. And they'll say, "He had a smattering of people." They were in the middle of an airport that nobody ever heard of. Thousands. If those people, come on, bring them over. What the hell, at this point, might as well, let them come on over. Come on over. You got thousands of people behind these people. I would imagine the sight lines aren't too good. You have stands in front. Okay. So one more time. Who would rather have a man on the Supreme Court? Who would have a woman on the Supreme. Now tomorrow, like fake news, CNN, he was playing games with the United States. It is a terrible thing he's done. No, I'm just taking a poll, please. And by the way, that's a very accurate poll, because that's the way I feel. It will be a woman, a very talented, very brilliant woman. Who I haven't chosen yet, but we have numerous women on the list. I built this incredible list of brilliant people. And we're asking for Biden's list. He can't give it. You know why? Because if he ever gave a list, he'd either put somebody in the left middle, which would be okay. You could get votes, or he'd put one, somebody, which is what he's going to choose, so far left, now, if he did the left middle, he loses his entire left coast. Right? And if he loses the left coast, that's the end of his election. And last time, remember how many people I got from Bernie, because of trade. A lot of the Bernie people vote for us because Bernie is right about one thing, trade. But Bernie took a bad defeat, didn't he? It was a bad loss. He's one of the most gracious losers I've ever seen, he is. All Elizabeth Warren, Pocahontas had to do is leave. If she left before Super Tuesday, Bernie would have won every one of those States, but they split up that vote. That's too bad, but we have Sleepy Joe, we'll see how that works out. I think it's working out pretty good. We were winning so much, we didn't even have, we could have called off the election. We were winning by so much, and then the plane came in from China. And in many ways, I had to go back to work, but I had to go back to work on this one too. And now we're going up and up and up and we're winning and we're winning all over the place. Because I happen to think, I just say what I want. And you know, they make up a lot of false stories. They will make up a lie. Like what I said about military. Can you imagine? No animal would say that. They make it up and then they put it in ads. So once they did that, the only good thing is I can say, I said, "Now I can say anything." He is the worst candidate, the dumbest of all candidates, but he was dumb in prime time, as told to me by a Senator from long ago, he said, "Who's the dumbest in the Senate, who's the smartest in the Senate?" The smartest is, I won't tell you. But the dumbest is Joe. I said, "Who's Joe." He said, "Joe Biden." That was 25 years ago. That was in prime time. He is the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics. If I lose to him, I don't know what I'm going to do. I will never speak to you again. You'll never see me again. No, how do you lose? He is honestly, I go up and these guys are grilling me all the time. Stephanopoulos grill, grill. Okay. It's all right. It's okay. I think it came out very, well it's always, it comes out well. You have to be able to answer. They're very weak compared to some of the foreign people that we deal with from foreign countries, leaders of foreign countries. But I say he's always using a teleprompter. I don't care if he uses a teleprompter, you know what bothers me? That means the fake news is giving him the questions. So that's what really… they never gave me the questions. If I ever said, in fact, I'm going to say it now. I want from now on you to give me the questions before you ask me. And I'm going to read the questions off the teleprompter, and the questions are so easy. Did you see Anderson Cooper? He's a nice guy. He's interviewed me over the years, a lot, but he's a tough interviewer. Did you see those softballs? What do you think Donald Trump is a very bad human being. Do you agree with that? Yes, I do, Anderson. I've never seen softballs, and actually they're getting hit by it. They're getting hit by it. It's just a terrible thing. I mean, this is a guy, I used to call him 1% Joe, because he ran numerous times and he could only get 1%. In fact, he actually had 1% with an arrow pointing left. That means less than one. Now he's shot, he's got half of his head left, and he's out, think of it. He's totally shot. And he ends up getting the nomination. He couldn't get it in prime time. What the hell is going on with the world today? What's going on? What's going on with the world, Mark Meadows? Unbelievable Meadows, oh boy. He's a smart guy, Meadows, great, great guy, North Carolina, in just three and a half years, we obliterated the ISIS caliphate. Remember when I had it down to 99%, they said, "You got to finish it." I said, "Let somebody else finish it." And we went, and we finished it. We fixed our disastrous trade deals, which we have. China's now paying us billions and billions of dollars. But you know, I view it differently now, I view China much differently now, after the plague came in, I view it differently. And we brought your jobs back home to North Carolina and our contract. In three years of President Trump, real median household income rose by almost $7,000. Now think of that, three years, three years, right? Achieving the highest median income in the history of our country. This is in three years. Under 16 years of presidents, Barack Hussein Obama, ladies and gentlemen, is President Barack Hussein Obama, or as Rush Limbaugh, the great, how great is Rush? Do we love Rush? As Rush Limbaugh would say, Barack Hussein Obama. You ever hear Rush? Barack Hussein Obama. Rush is great. He's doing well too. He's great. He's a tough guy. We love Rush. We love you Rush. He watches every one of these rallies. You know, he supported me when I came down with our great first lady, I came down the escalator. I made a speech. I didn't even have a speech writer, I had to wing it. The winging speeches are the best ones like last night. But Rush said, "I like that guy. I'd never heard that before. I'd never heard we're going to build a wall." We're going to have secure borders. We're going to make new trade deals that are like sane. We're going to do all the things we're going to rebuild our military. We're going to have a strong country again. We did so many things, and Rush heard this. I didn't know Rush. I mean, maybe I met him once, twice, for two seconds. And he became an instant fan of Trump. And he was for a long time before I even got to know him. And he's been so important, he's the King, 39 million listeners. There's nobody like him. Try sitting down for what is it? Three hours? And talking, just talking with everyone. 39 million people, often. Try sitting. We love Rush. I love Rush. But listen, try sitting down with a radio show with millions and millions of people listening, and talk for three hours without phone calls. Phone calls are easy. Hey, what do you think of this? What do you think. Just talk. Talk. And everybody finds it fascinating. And it is fascinating. I wish I had time to listen more often. It's a little tough as president, but everybody finds it fascinating. And we gave Rush, because he's such an important person and done such an incredible job the Presidential Medal of Freedom. And Catherine, his wife is great. What a couple. But Rush has been unbelievable. He's so on our side. And he was from literally day one, right from the beginning. And we don't have to mention Sean, and Laura, and so many others. We don't have to mention Lou, the great Lou Dobbs, right? I mean, Lou Dobbs said, Lou started years ago, and he liked us from the beginning. He said, "Donald Trump is going to be a very good president." Okay. That was the first little time. Then he went, "Donald Trump. I love Donald Trump, but he's the best since Ronald Reagan." Then he went, "Donald Trump is an even better president than Ronald Reagan." So that was about a year and a half into it. Then the great Lou Dobbs said, "Donald Trump may be the greatest of all time. Greatest of all time." And then somebody said, "Can I ask you Lou, when you say the greatest, does that include Abraham Lincoln and George Washington?" He said, "Absolutely. He's now the greatest of all time." So we love Lou Dobbs. Lou Dobbs is great. Go out and buy his book. His book is great. But we have great support. We have great support. Tucker's been very good lately, I have to tell you. Tucker has been very good. Tucker Carlson, he's come a long way, actually the whole thing with faking around with our whole history. He's very strong in that, we took care of that very powerfully, very powerfully. We signed an executive order. We fired a lot of people that were talking about cancel culture and a lot of fake stuff, that were getting paid a lot of money that we're here for a long time. Under 16 years of presidents Obama and Bush, the median income only rose $2,900. Now think of that. So three years, it went up $7,000, 16 years, it went up less than $3,000. I'd say that's a big difference. And that's not including energy, because look what you're paying for your gasoline now. Right? Remember those days? Remember those days of $5, you said, "Let's get rid of that big truck." Now you're all buying bigger trucks than they ever thought possible. You know why? Because gasoline is so damn cheap, right? Remember the $5 days? Now you're below $2 a lot, right? Below two. I mean, they're seeing numbers that nobody believes. It's all good stuff. And we're energy independent. So many things have happened. If you add four or $5,000, so you're talking about by $11,000, you got to add the energy. I said to my people, "Put the energy in." "Well, I don't know if it's right." I said, "Do me a favor, just put it in." In my first three years, we lifted 6.6 million people out of poverty, the largest poverty reduction of any president in American history. We built the greatest economy in the history of the world. And now we're doing it again, and we're doing it very rapidly. This is a super V. They said, "Oh, I don't know, V is going to be very hard." No, this is a super V. We will deliver a safe and effective vaccine this year. It's already in very good shape. Very, very good shape. In a matter of weeks. We will end the pandemic from China. We will end our plague from China. Next year will be one of the greatest years in the history of our country, it's heading that way. If you take a look, automobile manufacturing, housing, retailing, they're all setting records, they're through the roof, hard to believe, actually, during the rounding the corner, when I say rounding the corner, they go crazy. They want to keep it going as long as possible. If you say anything positive, they say, "He's not telling the truth to the American public." I am actually telling the truth. You know these people, they talked about, because I said, "Well, Winston Churchill was a great leader." They said the other night, "You said Winston Churchill was a great leader, but he didn't lie." Because this guy, Woodward. He writes a book. He's had it. He's another one shot. I compare him sort of to Biden. He's sharper than Biden, I have to say that, but he's shot. He's tired. He's exhausted. I never saw a guy be able to do so much television, try doing a book on somebody else. See how much television time they give you, like none. But they said the other night, and it was amazing. Winston Churchill. They said, "He didn't lie to the people, to Britain. He didn't lie." I said, "Well, let me ask you this. He stood on buildings when the Nazis, Hitler, were bombing London." That's pretty brave, because he may have been doing a little drinking, but he was known for that, right? He's got a right to, but it's true. He stood in the buildings in London, as they were bombing London, and made speeches, and made statements, and had everything. And he'd sometimes have press conferences. And the fake news wouldn't show up. He was standing there, nobody was in front of him. But he would stand there, and he would say, "You are safe. You are safe. Everything is okay. You are safe." Well, that's a lie, I guess, right? So I said, "Oh, I never thought of it that way. I guess he lied." No, he's a great leader, and he was leading, and he was a great, great prime minister. He did a fantastic job. Not lying. No. We love our country, we want to lead our country, and we can't let a thing like this, this is a horrible, horrible thing that happened to the world it happened, should have been stopped in China. They stopped it from going into the rest of China, should have been stopped in China. To defeat the China virus, we launched the largest industrial mobilization since World War II. Somebody said, "What grade would you give yourself?" I said, "A+." But I would give myself a D, I would say I would give myself, and my whole group, because Mike Pence is great, Mike Pence really was. He worked so hard. And it's unfair, he worked so hard. The ventilators, the vaccines, the therapeutics now we have, look at what's happening. When somebody gets very sick, look how we bring them back so often, compared to what it was originally. I mean, the work that's been done, and wait until you see what happens over the next few weeks with what's going on. But the Democrats don't want the vaccine. They don't want it. At first, they wanted a vaccine, because they didn't think it could happen. Now that we have it, they're going like, "Well, we don't want it." It's the craziest thing. Think of it, you want to get a vaccine, and they're willing to hurt people, let people die for political reasons. Think of it. I think, honestly, I think it's a disgrace. But we surged rapid testing kits. We have more testing than all other, I mean, practically everybody. You look at number two is India. They have 1.5 billion people. We are up 50 million tests more than India. In fact, we're about to crack 100 million tests. And when you test, then you have, does this make sense? Then you have cases. So we do all this testing, and I come home and I turn on NBC News. It is so bad. I think NBC, that's not only MSDNC. I think NBC with Lester Holt. There's another beauty. Hi Lester. How do you feel big in second place Lester? He surged from first place to second place. But NBC News is so, I mean, it's just terrible. They use free airwaves, and then they give you fake news. Free airwaves. They should pay a lot of money for this. This is not right. NBC. It's owned by a company called Concast, C-O-N, Concast, they're con, they're con men. It's a disgrace. They spend fortunes on public relations and then I get up and make a speech like this with television blazing all over the world, I guess. Yeah, the world, it's all over the world. And I say Concast, and immediately, there goes their public, how's your public relations doing NBC? Not too good. But they're just… they don't tell the truth. Our country would be so much better off if we had honest media, really. Really would. And do you see what their approval rating has gone to? I think it's one of my greatest achievements. Hey look- It's a Saturday night. We have all night. This happened last night in Minnesota. I have these teleprompter people, they're great, they're genius. And I was about 45 minutes into the speech, and I realized I was only on line two. And he was like, "What do I do?" But we have more fun. Hey, you now have a president that doesn't have to use a teleprompter, isn't that nice? And I said last night, I said, and yeah, your friends were there. The Congressmen. By the way, is the media now, and I'm pretty sure it's getting close. I think they have a lower approval rating than Congress. Congratulations. No, but it's hard. When you're sitting there, you're in businesses, you're in construction, you drive trucks, you do a lot of things. You're in offices. You don't realize, because you don't know what's happening. I know exactly a true story. And then it's written to totally bend the truth, to make a good thing into a bad thing. Like, can you believe it, in one week they nominated me, not for one, but for two Nobel prizes. No, but think of it. No but think. And they didn't cover the story. Now Obama got his the first week. Very liberal group, and nobody knew what the hell he got it for, and he didn't know. Why did you get it? I don't know. Remember? I don't know. I have no idea. But you know, you have a president, you love your president, and your president gets honored, because I'm not being honored, you're being honored with the Nobel Peace Prize, for Israel, what we did with Israel. I went home and I said to the First Lady, "Darling," she's very popular. She made a great speech, right? And Ivanka made a great speech, right? But I went home. I said, "Darling, I have big news tonight. Let's turn on the television." You know, we don't use wind. We use actually, we actually use petroleum. We use Petro. Because we like it to be on like a lot. We don't like to have lots of open gaps when the wind's not blowing. We can't watch President Trump. I go home. I say, "First Lady, a great thing happened today. I was honored, Nobel Peace Prize, nominated. This is a big thing First Lady." And then I went home two days later. I said, "First Lady, you're not going to believe it. I was honored again. Nobel Prize, that's Kosovo." Israel, Kosovo. I said, "First Lady, this is great news. Let's turn on the television. This is going to be big. This is going to be big tonight. We just got honored, this is big." Nobel Peace, can you imagine? You grow up in Brooklyn, Queens, and now you're getting the… "First Lady, let's turn on the television. Let's turn onto that fake NBC news." And I see we have a storm. "Okay, First Lady, don't worry about it. The storm is big. We have it taken care of, FEMA's down there, Florida, Alabama, Georgia. We got FEMA down there. It's being taken care of. We always take care of it. We take good care of it." Texas, Louisiana. We took good care of him two weeks ago. "All right First Lady, don't worry about it. It's the next story, I'm sure, it's the Nobel Prize for peace." We're stopping mass killings between Kosovo and Serbia. They've been killing each other for so many, they're going to stop killing. I said, fellas, let's get together. They'd been doing it for hundreds of years, frankly, under different names. I said, that's great. And with Israel, UAE and Bahrain signed a deal with Israel. Everybody said it couldn't be done. I said, "All right, First Lady, that's the first story on NBC, but don't worry. That's a big story. The floods are big. I see it." And then there was a second story about something. And then their third story is about something with me, I don't know, something bad they found out. Then there was a fourth and a fifth and a sixth. I said, "First Lady, I'm a little embarrassed. I thought we'd do a little better." And then they looked at the screen, and said, "Good night." And I wasn't covered. I got the Nobel Peace Prize nomination, a Peace Prize, Nobel nomination. And they didn't cover it. And then the following day I watched a certain show that does like us, and they said, "Would you believe, that they covered, and they mentioned like five subjects that were nothing. That was 18 minutes. And the Peace Prize Nobel version, zero time for President Trump. Thank you very much fake news media, we appreciate it. And when Obama got it, here are the headlines. President Obama gets the Nobel Prize. We need an honest media. The free airwaves, they lie over the free airwaves. They use them and they lie. I don't know. We're going to have to look at it. They're a bunch of scoundrels. They hate it when I say it, but you know, honestly, they are the enemy of the people. When they lie, they are the enemy of the people. You are the enemy of the people. Oh, damn it. The red lights just went off. One, two, three, there's one back there, there's one back there, probably, oh it's OAN, thank you OAN. Every time I get on this subject, they cover me not because they want to, but we get great ratings. We get ratings. These little deals that we have here, come on in folks, come on in. Look at these people. But you know what? I'll tell you what, it's true. They cover it because… But anytime I start talking about the fake news media, you see them getting a little tentative. The camera starts to shake a little bit, and you know, there's another thing. Look at this crowd. It's as far as the eye can see, it's a big crowd, right? They never cover it. I said to my wife last night, we had this incredible crowd. A lot of people, thousands and thousands. I mean like 25, 30,000, many people outside couldn't get it. It was like a sea of people. My wife said, "Was it a large crowd?" I said, "Did you watch?" "Yes. But they only show your face." And I saw people they never show. And that includes Fox, which has changed a lot, changed a lot, sad. Somebody said, "What's the biggest difference between 2016 and now?" You know what I said, "Fox." Biggest difference. Biggest difference. I don't know what's going on with them. But we have some great ones too on Fox. We surged rapid testing kits to every nursing home in America. We learned a lot, through pioneering therapies, we reduced the fatality rate by 85% since April. Think of that? 85%. We've come up with things. They're waiting to see what's coming over the next few months in terms of therapeutics, which to me is even more important than the vaccine. You go into the hospital, you make people better. You give them a shot, you do a transfusion. You make people better. They walk out, that's to me even better, but ultimately long-term, those vaccines are going to be great, and they're really working out well and it's going to be really soon. The people in certain groups are trying to hold them up as long as possible, as long as possible. They're going to try and give Sleepy Joe the credit. He doesn't even know what a… It's possible. They're going to try and get Sleepy Joe the credit. He doesn't even know what a vaccine is. Europe is almost 30% higher excess mortality than the United States. Does anyone know that? they don't report that, right? Europe? Europe's had a hard time. I'm not looking to hurt them, but they have 30% higher. Our bold and early action saved millions of lives and our decisive economic response saved tens of millions of jobs, including 1.3 million jobs, and a wonderful place called North Carolina, right? When I banned travel from China in January, Sleepy Joe Biden called it, "That's hysterical. That's xenophobic." What does that mean? Tell me what xenophobic means, Sleepy Joe. Who said that? I mean, you're my friend. Who said it? All right, what a voice. Have you ever tried opera? What a voice, did everybody hear that? That's true. I wouldn't say it. She said, "He has no idea where he is." But I would never say it. I won't say it. I won't say it. I refuse this. No, but don't underestimate him. Look, he's been doing this for 47 years, and I got a debate coming up with this guy. No, it's true. You never know, you never know. They give him a big fat shot in the ass, and he comes out, and for two hours, he's better than ever before. Problem is what happens after the … No, we're going to ask for a drug test, we are. I'd like to have a drug test. Both of us. I'll take it, he'll take. Because I watched him into debates with all those people, those Democrats. The one who treated him worst was Kamala. Actually, also, she was the one that treated, you know that, she was the one that treated him so badly. And she treated Kavanaugh very badly too. Nobody was ever ruder, nobody ever suffered, like Justice Kavanaugh suffered in the hands and the mouths of those horrible people. The way he was tortured was disgraced. And they had nothing. Those women, that was all made up. Most of them have already admitted, it was all made up lies, false accusations, and they made him suffer. And the leader of the pack I would say was, Kamala was the worst, and Pocahontas was a close second. How's Pocahontas doing, since she destroyed Bloomberg? How about Bloomberg? Did he get killed? Now he's trying to come back. He's trying to buy his way back into the Democratic Party. "I'm going to put up $100 million in Florida, we're going to go," he wants to be back so badly. Here's a guy who spent $2 billion, it's almost two billion now, they're finding out. He had some of the dumbest advisers, people I know, some of the dumbest people. If he would have just kept spending a couple of hundred million dollars a week on ads, he could have won. He could have won. Unfortunately, he said, "No, I want to debate." He went and sued to get into the debates. That was not a good lawsuit. They settled by saying, "We'll let you in the debate." The first question, he was destroyed. You would think that, the way the Democrats treated him, he would really come to me, and he'd say, "I want you," but his hatred and jealousy … He wanted to be President, but he doesn't have the capability of being President. But he's going down now to Florida, he's going to spend $100 million. How good … I have to say this, I'm not a fan of Elizabeth Warren. I gave her the name Pocahontas, I thought that was the end. Remember what I used to say about her? She has … Oh, well, you know it. You know. I would just, look, I said, "This is not an Indian." She said, "I'm an Indian." You remember what I said? "I have more Indian blood than me, I have more in me than she has, and I have none." Unfortunately, I'd like to have some. I would like to have some. I think it could help, it might make me better, but I have none. And I said, "I have more than she does." And then she went out to, and she choked, remember that? She went out, and she took a test. And it found out that about 700 years ago, there was a possible event, 1,024th, right? Wasn't that it? Good memory, very good memory. Trump has a good memory. Good moment. Not for that, but for a lot of things. Now, 1024th, which meant many, many, many centuries ago, there could have been a hookup somewhere along the line. But she choked. We forced her into a choke. She went down like a rock, and then she started coming up, up, up, up, up. Then she totally destroyed Mike Bloomberg. We call him Mini Mike. Remember? Mini Mikey wants that platform. "I want a platform, damn it." I don't mind. Oh, boy, he was pathetic, but now he's going to try and buy his way back into the Democrat party. You remember that guy? Great environmentalist. Except he made his money with coal, which is okay, I think coal is good. Clean coal, I like clean coal. If we had listened to Joe Biden, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died. You know that. He was way behind. This was months later. And then I watch him last night, reading something saying that, I opened, I closed it up, one week later, one week. Two months later, he was talking about the fact that I shouldn't be doing that to China. I shouldn't be banning China because I was xenophobic. And it's just unbelievable. And now they will say anything. It's called disinformation. They will make up a lie, they will make up a story, and they go with it, it makes no difference whether or not it's show, and they'll take ads. It's the worst group of people. He's surrounded by bad people, dishonest people, but they're very smart. He's not smart. They keep him from talking. It's actually, if he wins, it's the single most brilliant campaign in the history of the world. Because they took a man who's got nothing. He didn't have it, but he's got nothing, and I will give them credit. The single greatest campaign in history, if he wins, but you know what? If he wins, North Carolina is screwed, and so is every place else. And you can forget your tobacco industry, you can forget your farmers. I gave the farmers $28 billion. Thank you very much, Presidency. $28 billion. Because you were targeted, right? You were targeted by China. And I said, "How much were the farmers," Iowa, Nebraska, you, all of them? You were targeted. I said, "How much?" Sonny Perdue, I said, "How much, Secretary?" 12 billion, then 16 billion, you were targeted. I took it out of the tariffs we charge. We never took 25 cents in from China, now we're getting billions and billions and billions of dollars. Sleepy Joe, that never gave, never took anything, or Trump, misjudging him? So Mexico, we're driving them a little crazy. They don't like Trump too much. But now Biden is recklessly campaigning against his vaccine. His campaign campaign's really reckless. And all it is is for political reasons. It's political reasons. Biden, his whole deal is catastrophic shutdown. We're getting better, we're really coming along, and he's talking about shutting down. We're not doing any shutdowns. We don't need shutdowns. Maybe a little area, if it's such a spike, we understand, we have to take care of our senior citizens. This guy talked, he said, "Well, I'll do whatever my medical people want. I believe in science." He doesn't know what science is. "I believe in science." No, we're not doing any shutdowns. We don't need, we're rounding the turn. Without the vaccine, we're rounding the turn. With the vaccine, it'll just speed it up. That's another one that will be controversial. They'll say, "He's saying that it's happened." Yeah, without the care, without the vaccine, it's going along. With a vaccine, even better. It'll be faster. Biden's own chief of staff said, when they manage the H1N1 that he calls the N1H1, right? He goes, "the N1H1," and that's an easy one, because H comes before, but he always gets it wrong. It's like, seven times, "It's great to be with the great people of Iowa." They'll say, "Sir, you're in Idaho." "Oh." I've never made that mistake so far. But I always say, "If you do, just leave the stage, because you can never recover." You can speak as well as, I mentioned, Winston Churchill, even though he was a great speaker, he was a stutterer, and he became one of the greatest speakers ever. You could be Winston Churchill, if you make that mistake, just leave the stage. You can't recover. But he's made it oftentimes, right, in New Hampshire, and it was Vermont. The worst, I think, I think there was one, he was in Ohio, and he said he was in Florida, right? But he couldn't find any palm trees. We just got a poll from Ohio. Through the roof. Great state of Ohio, good Governor, great state of Ohio. But when they managed the H1N1 swine flu, this was from his top person that ran it. "We did every possible thing wrong. 60 million Americans got H1N1 in that period of time. And it was just a total disaster." He basically said, "We didn't know what the hell we were doing." And this is the guy that's going to tell us what to do with something that's much more lethal, much more lethal. This is much more lethal than the swine flu. If H1N1 had the same fatality rate as the China virus, over two million people would have already perished. They didn't know what the hell they were doing. And the guy admitted it. That guy can not be very popular in Democrat politics right there. But just to remember, and he's telling us how to do things. We're building ventilators, we're the ventilator capital of the world now, think of it. We're sending them to other countries, we have so many. And we have made a lot of Governors look very good. And they all admit it, until the press comes in front, where they say, "Oh, he was okay," but we took care of them. We took care of Governors, we took care of the states. On November 3rd, North Carolina will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity, or whether we allow Joe Biden to impose a $4 trillion tax hike, ban American energy, confiscate your guns. These are all things that he said. Shut down our economy, destroy the suburbs. They were saying that women in the suburbs, they're not sure if they like me. They're starting to like me a lot lately, because it's law and order. They want law and order. Thank you. A suburbanite, thank you, thank you. No, it's true. I don't know. But I heard the same thing four years ago, remember? " Women will not vote for him." Then we win the election, it's like, they're all in shock. Well, what took place? "Well, he did very well with women," what the hell was that all about, right? Did very well. Women were great. Now, if it holds true … There a lot of jobs, a lot of jobs, a lot of great thinking, but he wants to give free healthcare to illegal aliens. Now, what that's going to do is destroy our country, because two things happen. Number one, we can't afford it. Number two, everybody is going to come pouring into our country if you do that. Right now, they're saying, wherever they are, when you say, "We're going to give you free education, we're going to give you free healthcare. We're going to take care of you. Everything's going to be perfect. We're going to give you, every single family," now watch, they'll print this. "We've checked it out, and he lied about this." Every single family is going to be given a brand new Silver Cloud Rolls Royce. Now, I said that, and CNN went, "He lied about the fact that they're not getting a Rolls Royce." Remember what I said? " Russia, if you're listening," in front of this message, "Russia, if you're listening, find out where her e-mails," or whatever. And then, everybody laughed, I laughed. Well, they actually play it all the time. "When he spoke to Russia." Do you ever see it? And they cut it off before the end, they don't see any, I said, "Russia, if you're listening …" Oh, these people are sick. He wants to erase your borders. Yeah, that was supposed to be a joke, right? It was a joke. It was a joke, everybody was laughing, but they refused to go that extra quarter of a second. He wants to indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in education. To combat the toxic left wing propaganda in our schools, I am launching a new pro-American lesson plan for students called, 1776 Commission. It's already done. That's good. And it's true, your kids come home, and they tell you things. How many of you, the kids come home, and they tell you things. It's a disgrace, what they're teaching them, it's a disgrace. We're ending it. In fact, we're taking school funds away from these crazy schools that are teaching horrible things, bad things, actually. We will teach our children the truth about America, that we are the most exceptional nation on the face of the earth. And we are getting better every single day. And no party can lead America, that will not teach our children to love America. No party can do that. The sleepy campaign has joined forces with those trying to tear down America and our way of life. We have a great way of life, and getting better all the time. Look at what we've done. Biden's running mate urged supporters to help bail rioters out of jail, including one who attempted murder. That's right. One who attempted to murder a police officer, and a man accused of sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl, 13 members of Biden's staff donated to the same fund. Look, that's where they're coming from, just so you know. He's trying to go a little bit more right, like the fracking. "Oh, well of course, we're going to have …" For six months, he's saying, there'll be no fracking, which I don't think the people in Pennsylvania thrilled with, do you agree, considering that your taxes could quadruple. I tell it all the time, Texas, right? Texas, they like oil. They like guns, right, in Texas. Right? And they like God. So he comes out with a platform, no oil. We don't want oil. This is during the Democrat deal. There'll be no oil, there'll be no God, there'll be no guns. This is not a good campaign. And then the fake news says, "Donald Trump is tied in Texas." I'm tied. Last time I was tied in Texas until the day of the vote. Then they announced, the second they called it, "The polls in Texas have closed. Donald Trump has won the state of Texas." Think of it. He's against oil. He's against guns. They're going to confiscate your guns, Second Amendment's going to be destroyed. I am holding up your Second Amendment. If it's not me, look what I've done. You think it's been easy? They want to get rid of the Second Amendment. They're going to get rid of the guns, right? And religion. So, look what they're doing to religion. These states, everything's closed, except, you're allowed to protest. That's why I say everything we do is a protest. Look at all those people back there, look at that. Look it, they just form. Wow. Turn the cameras around, please. They never do it. Turn the cameras around, please. Wow. Thank you. That's a lot of people. We're proud of you. That's a lot of people. You ever notice, they never do it, though. I say, "Turn the camera." Right from the beginning, they never did. They don't want to give us the credit for these big crowds, because you know what? When you see crowds like this, or in Wisconsin, that I had a few nights ago, or last night was so incredible. What we had last night was just incredible, in Minnesota. We're going to win it, 1972, we're going to win it. 1972, it hasn't … That's a long time ago. Remember? I think Reagan won every state except for Minnesota. We're going to win Minnesota. What we've done for them, we've opened up their livelihood again. Maine. How about Maine? I opened up 5,000 square miles of ocean. Obama closed it. They said, "Why? He had no idea." Right off their shore, no fishing, no nothing. They called it a monument, right? Right off their shore. Maine, I mean, if I don't win Maine … Maine traditionally is not really very Republican, but I won Maine too last time, actually. Because I love Maine, too. I love Maine, too. But think of what I did. I opened the waters up for fishermen and for lobster men and women. Now they go lobster fishing and fishing. But 5, 000, I said, "Why did they close it?" Nobody was able to tell me, but I opened it up, an executive order. I totally opened it up. I did many other things. Then I got the tariffs. They couldn't do business in European Union, they couldn't do business in China, because they were charging tariffs to Maine. So Canada would take our fish and lobster. We'd sell it to Canada for nothing, and they'd sell it to China and Europe, because they didn't have to pay tariffs. Not only did I get the 5,000 … Think of what, 5,000 square miles. So you take one mile, square mile, multiply times 5,000. That's a big area, even in an ocean, right? It's massive. And it was the best area, the best. I got rid of the tariffs. I told them, "If you tariff our Maine lobster people, and fishermen and women, if you want a tariff on them, that's okay, but we're going to tariff your cars, okay?" Which is a much bigger deal. It was amazing how quickly those tariffs were taken off. I did that off of Maine, I did that in two weeks, okay? Took me two weeks. Once I found out about it, it's hard to believe it ever happened. So I did that for Maine. And somebody said, I'm down in Maine. How the hell can I be down in Maine, after what I did? I'll tell you what if I do that from Maine, and if Maine doesn't vote for Trump. I don't think I'm going back, okay? I can tell you one thing. Their Senator never did it for them. Joe Biden and the Democrats want to gut police departments nationwide. You know that, right? Here in North Carolina, nearly 50 Democrat State House members and candidates have signed a pledge to slash police funding, endangering your families. I was recently honored to be endorsed by 54 sheriffs throughout this state, and we're joined by many of them tonight. Where are they? Thank you, Sheriff. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, folks. Thank you. Thank you. You got to take care of our law enforcement. We got to take care, nobody can do the job like them. We have to let them do their job. We've got to stop this nonsense, this child's play, we've got to stop, they're great. You know, I was endorsed by, think of this, New York's finest. It's very tough. You know, de Blasio's your mayor, he doesn't have a clue what's happening, either. I think Sleepy Joe's worse, do you want to know the truth? Because this other guy has just an ideology that's just terrible. But de Blasio is there, and New York's finest, first time they've ever endorsed a Presidential candidate, they endorsed me, three weeks ago. That takes courage. Think of it. Chicago, the police in Chicago, they could do their job. We don't even have to bring in the National Guard. Whenever we do, it takes about 30 minutes, it's over, right? Like we did in Minneapolis, 30 minutes. Remember that beautiful scene? They lined up, they went down, there was no social distancing in between these great, tough guys. There was no social distancing, Tom Tillis. They went down and they had $250,000 outfits. They had more crap on that helmet with night goggles. And these guys were sort of wise guys, right? They were shouting at them, screaming at them. They were screaming at the wrong people. They went down, they never had to stop. It was just forward. It all ended. It all ended in Minneapolis. It took, you also had, what? A half an hour? Remember, they hit the CNN reporter in the knee? He went down, Ali Velshi. He said, "This is a friendly protest. It's wonderful to see such a …" Behind him, it was all fire for a block. It looked like Berlin during the war. "This is a friendly …" What are they doing? How does that help to be like that? How does that help? We're joined tonight by some really great friends of mine and some warriors that have been a fantastic help to me. One man who, especially over the last year, he has been so great, he couldn't be better. And I think he's doing very well. I'm looking at some numbers, and you're doing very well. And I think your opponent has some very big problems. Senator Tom Tillis. Thank you, Tom. Thank you. He's been great, smart guy. And he's got a couple of bills that he's putting in, one in particular, I love it. You got to do it. That if a sanctuary city causes problems, you can sue the sanctuary city, you can sue. Will you get, we got to get that one moving, right? That's moving along, right? That's a great one. A man who, I just did a phone call for the other night, and the people love him. He's in a rough district, but he's now leading. I see you're up in the polls, Congressman Richard Hudson, great guy. Where's Richard? Great guy. He's a warrior. And two people I really liked, because we fought like hell for them a year ago, right? And they had guts, and they had what it takes. They didn't choke. You know, a lot of people choke. They choke, they gag, they can't breathe. Greg Murphy and Dan Bishop, they didn't choke, they're fantastic. They are fantastic people. Thank you. Look, they're friends. We're friends. Those two guys were incredible. Thank you very much, great job. Really great job. And a man that should be your Governor, I don't know, he's doing well, but Lieutenant Governor, Dan Forest, everybody. Thank you very much, great job. Handsome guy, handsome. Looks like Cary Grant. I hear you're doing really well. Look, I mean, this guy's got this state totally closed down. It's ridiculous. It's, when are they going to open? When are they going to open? Dan, this would have been opened up a long time ago. And you would have done even better. I mean, you would have done better. And North Carolina Republican Party Chair, Michael Whatley. Michael? Thank you, Michael. Great job, Michael. How are we doing, Michael? How's it going? Are we up? I mean, if I lose North Carolina, I'm getting out of here. This is not … Look at that. This is not, just so you know, the crowd of a man that's coming in second. I say it all the time. I said it when I left Michigan. 2016, the night of the election, we had 32,000 people. Hillary was there, just before me, in a prime location. She had about 400 people. I got there at 12 in the evening, I started speaking at one in the morning, it's now Election Day, and I left. 32,000 people, we had 32,000 people. So it's now Election Day. I start speaking, I started speaking, think of it, one o'clock in the morning, we had 30, you never saw anything like it. I left. I said, "That doesn't look like we're going to lose Michigan." And guess what? We didn't. We won Michigan, first time in decades. And you know what we've done? Many, many car plants are now opening up. A great gentleman, who's just retiring, Prime Minister Abe, of Japan. I said, "Shinzo, please do me a favor. We need more car companies. You're selling cars into our country, please. We want to build here, not in Japan, please." He said, "But we cannot do that. This is a free enterprise system." I said, "I know, Shinzo, please. I need some car companies. Please do it." "I can't do it." I said, "Shinzo, you have to do it." Next day, it was a story, "Five car companies to open up in Michigan," right? So much for free enterprise, but he's a great guy, he's a friend of mine. He's great. They're lucky he's a friend of mine. I would have been much tougher. It's hard. When a guy is a friend, it's hard, but they did a lot. They did a lot. They helped it a lot. And what they've done here, by the way, Japan, and what they've done in Michigan, Ohio, what they've done? By the way, we all love South Carolina, right, right? I think we love it. Now, South Carolina, we're winning here, but South Carolina, I hate to say this to you, I don't want to make you upset. We're winning by about 400 points. I spoke to a great person in South Carolina who said, "Sir, you don't have to come here. This thing's up by a lot." What the hell is the difference, right? I mean, we are up, and we're up good, but I'd love you to tie South Carolina. What do we have to do? But a lot of activity in South Carolina also, they're doing great. You had the best year you've ever had. They've had the best year they ever had. And you're going to go to a better year, we are going to have a better year. We're also deeply honored to be joined by a military spouse, Amy Williams, who was reunited with her husband, Sergeant First Class Townsend Williams, at my State of the Union address. Everybody remembers that. Everybody remembers was there. Good, you're looking well. Thank you very much. Say hello to the whole family. Thank you. Thanks to the incredible sacrifices of our warriors, and they are warriors. We're pursuing peace in Afghanistan, it's very close. We're down to, we will soon be down to 4,000 soldiers. We're taking them out. They're serving as policemen. They're serving as police, and they've done a great job. We could win everything, but I'm not looking to kill three million people to win, what? To win what? We should have never been in the Middle East, and we're bringing them back. We're bringing them back, just so you know, we're bringing them back from Iraq. We're down to 2,000 soldiers in Iraq. And in Syria, we're all back, we're all finished, except for one thing. If it's okay with you. I decided to keep the oil. We took the oil, we kept it. And we'll always support America's incredible military families. So thank you very much. Thank you, darling. Really good. Okay. In everything we do, we're putting America first, unlike other administrations, and not just Obama and Biden. This has gone on for many years. We put America first, and that's what we're doing. And you know what? Other countries, for the first time in decades, respect us again. Remember that. They respect us again. You know all about data, 28 countries. We had six countries that were current, and the amount of current is too low, okay? Six countries. I went in, and I said, "You got to pay. Sorry, you're delinquent." They said, "Really?" "Yeah," I said. "You're delinquent. You got to pay." Obama would go, and make a speech and leave, that would be it. We were paying for it. We're protecting Europe, and they're screwing us on trade. So we protect them, and they're screwing us on trade. No good, no good. Can't do it. I said, "It's unfair." And the Secretary General, Stoltenberg, of NATO, said, "I've never seen," and the fake news can call him up and check. He said, "He's the greatest that we've ever seen." For 20 years, the spending at NATO went like this, right? And America, we pick it up. Every time it goes down, they didn't pay. And I said, "We're supposed to protect you. You're going to be attacked by Russia or somebody, we're supposed to protect you. And yet you're delinquent. You don't pay your bills." And that includes Germany. They're paying 1%, they're supposed to pay two, and 2% is way too low. 2% military spending. So we got, listen to this. It never gets reported by these fakers. We got $130 million more, more, not total, more, going to, over three years, $400 billion. So we're going from 130 billion, with a B, not million, to $400 billion. And they said to me, they said … And they said to me, they said to me, very nice guy, head of one of the countries, at a table. I can't believe it never got released, but now we can talk about it, because it's three years ago. But they said, "Sir … " And this was a big private meeting of all of the nations, "Does that mean if we don't … " Because I said, "You got to pay your bills. We're protecting you. You're not paying your bills." Some did, like Poland and some others, but most didn't. Six to eight were current, and we were paying much more than we should have been paying, much more. I mean, it's Europe. We got to defend ourself, and there was no guarantee that they'd help us if we ever had a problem. Right? We're never going to have a problem. We got so much stuff now. We were depleted. Now we have great … But they said to me, "Does this mean … " And I had to give this answer. I can't believe it didn't get leaked by some sleazebag. We have leakers all over this place, but a lot of it didn't leak. A lot of it is just made up by the newspapers. They make up phony stories. They say, "Donald Trump woke up today. He was in a very bad mood, according to sources." There is no source. They just made it up. Hey, I woke up, and I was in a bad mood. True. I've actually had a … I've been in a good mood, because we're doing so much for our country. We've done so much for our country. But at the NATO meeting, one of the presidents of one of the good countries, all good, they said, "Sir, does this mean that if we don't pay, does this mean that you're going to leave, and you're not going to protect us?" I said, "Yes. That's what it means. I'm sorry." It was an amazing effect, because other presidents said, "No. We will always protect you. We will always protect you, even if you don't pay, even if our taxpayer is paying for everything, even though you take advantage of us on trade, you don't let our cars in, you don't let our stuff in, but you sell us like crazy, even though you tariff our product, even though you do everything, and then you take advantage of us with the military." They said, "We will always protect you." So they didn't pay. Why the hell would they pay? They said, "Boy, these guys are stupid." So they asked me the question, "Does this mean, sir, that you will not protect us anymore if we don't pay?" I said, "I'm sorry to say, it does." That's a big story. Three years ago, it's a big story. It was amazing how the money came in. So we took in 130 billion a year, going over a three-year period, to 400, just because I asked. Right? Just because I asked. True. They don't report that story. Then we got lightweights that I fired, and they write books about me, that I'm a bad guy, "Oh, he's a terrible guy. He treats our allies so badly." No. Our allies treat us badly. Our allies in many ways treat us worse than our enemies. I must be honest with you. They take advantage of us. Everyone takes advantage of your country, and we don't put up with it. And you know what the funny thing? We get along better now, because they respect us again. Before, they thought we were stupid. They respect us again. They do. I mean, look at Israel, look what we did. I saw Kerry this other day. Is this guy the worst negotiator? Gave Iran 150 billion, plus 1.8 billion in cash. He never walked. Sometimes in a negotiation, when you've given everything, and you can't give anymore, and then they want more, you get up ane walk. Remember the bicycle accident? That was the only time he had to ride his bicycle in a race. 73 years old. "I promise," I said, "I will never ever … I promise to you, ride a bicycle in a race, or any other time frankly." I will never ride a bicycle during a negotiation. And he broke his leg, and his arm, and he was all screwed up. And that was actually a good thing, because it delayed the signing of that horrible deal, which I terminated. Nah, we had some terrible negotiators, and they all said, I saw them the other day, this was him like a year ago, "Mark my words, you will never ever sign deals with Arab countries, with Israel. It can't be done." Well, we just signed the two great ones, and we got about seven more that want to come in. What a bunch, what a bunch. And then they say bad things about your president. They don't like my foreign policy. I like my foreign policy. You like it. No, we were taken advantage of by the whole world. They're so stupid, so stupid. We've spent the last four years reversing the damage that Biden and his crew inflicted on us over a 47-year period. Joe Biden is weak. He's supported every globalist sellout of North Carolina, the workers, what he's done. And when I say, "him", it's him and people in his little group that … You've achieved so much over a period of time. He sold it out. Look at NAFTA. How bad was NAFTA? China's entry into the World Trade Organization. TPP would have destroyed our car industry. And of course, he joined and wanted to join the Paris Climate Accord. That's another beauty. That would have cost you trillions and trillions of dollars. That was actually, I think, designed to put us out of business, literally. Biden has repeatedly surrendered your jobs to China and other countries. This state lost 43% of all manufacturing jobs after the NAFTA and China disasters. You know that. You lost 43%, but I think the real number is 61%, by the way. Biden says that this an election between Scranton and Park Avenue. By the way, he left Scranton. He likes to say, "I was born in Pennsylvania." But he doesn't say he left. His father left. Not his fault, but they make it like he's … No, he went to Delaware. He doesn't leave Delaware, that I can tell you. Every time I see this guy … Wilmington, Delaware. Does he ever leave? I'm in Los Angeles. I'm trying to work on the fires. They ought to do some forest management a little bit maybe. Ridiculous. The floors of the forest, it's got 20 years of leaves and trees that are dry as a bone, matchsticks. Forest management. Naturally, this is an election, not between Scranton or wherever it is. It's really between Scranton and China, you know that, Scranton and China. I'm with America. Biden is with China. If Biden wins, China wins. If we win, America wins, North Carolina wins, Pennsylvania wins, and the American workers win in every single state. To save our auto industry, I withdrew from this horrible, horrible deal, Trans-Pacific Partnership. Earlier this year, I kept my promise to North Carolina when I ended the NAFTA nightmare. You got hit so hard. All those empty buildings all over the place, but a lot of them now are filled up because of us. They filled up. When did they fill up? Over the last three-and-a-half years. I proudly signed a brand new US-Mexico-Canada agreement into law, which will bring hundreds of thousands of high paying jobs back to the United States, and it's already doing. We invested $2.5 trillion in the US military. Defense spending in North Carolina has soared by more than $1 billion a year. Congratulations, good job. We launched the first new branch of the US Armed Forces. This by itself would be a big achievement. This is one of so many different things, Right to Try, the military, the vets, everything. We've done so much, but we … 75 years, right? Last one was the Air Force. The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines, the Coast Guard, they're so good. We have another one now, for 75 years, Space Force. We need it. I never even promised that. Right? One of them said recently that, "He's actually done more than he promised in the campaign." That means I'm probably the only politician in history. They will tell you, these incredible women up here from North Carolina. Stand up. Will you, please? These are most incredible people. Thank you. Stand up. Turn around for the cameras, so they can see how incredible you are. Thank you. Man, oh, man. What a life. But we took care of the VA with Veterans Choice. You saw that. What Obama was nothing. It wasn't working, the MISSION Act. That's amazing. And accountability, where we can fire people in the VA that aren't taking great care of our vets, okay? "You're fired. Get out. You're fired. Out." We killed the founder and leader of ISIS, al-Baghdad. We took out the worlds number-one terrorist and the mass murder of American troops and many others, Qasem Soleimani. He's dead. He's dead. I withdrew from last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal. I kept my promise, recognized the true capitol of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And we got it built. I was signing a sheet of paper, you've heard this story, $1.1 billion. I said, "What's this for?" They said, "Sir, now that you've moved, we're going to build an embassy in Israel, in Jerusalem." I say, "How much is it?" "1.1 billion." You got some friends of mine here, they're builders. You don't spend 1.1 billion on a one-story building. I don't know what's going on. So I said, "So, does it have to cost so much?" "Yes, sir. We're buying land" So I called David Friedman. He's our ambassador, he's one of the most successful lawyers in New York. He's a brilliant guy. He loves Israel. Right? Love Israel. I call him. He's the ambassador, he's there. I said, "David, they want to spend 1.1 billion on a damn one-story embassy. It's crazy." I said, "Would you take a look? Maybe we own some land." We own a lot of land. We've been there a long time. Calls me back. He said, "Let me take a look at it, sir." He calls me the next day. "Sir, we have a great piece of land, a much better location that we were going to way overpay for, a much bigger piece. We have a setback building that we can renovate and make it great." I said, "That's fantastic, David. How much will it cost to renovate the building?" "I think we can do it for $190,000." So I said, "David," it's the first time I've ever done it. I said, "David, it's too cheap. You got to spend more than that." So a friend of mine, Ron Baron, he's got an office building, and he's got Jerusalem stone facing the elevators in this high-rise building, Jerusalem stone. And every time I go in, he goes, "Oh, you got to see Jerusalem stone." And he paid a fortune for it. He's so proud of it. He doesn't talk about anything but his Jerusalem stone. I said, "David, do me a favor. You're I Jerusalem. Right?" "Yes." "Do they have Jerusalem stone?" "They got so much, we don't know what to do with it." I said, "Use all Jerusalem stone when you're rebuilding the building, when you do your renovation. Everything, wrap it in Jerusalem stone." So I think we ended up spending, to fix up the building, like $500,000. Can you believe it? We were going to spend 1.1 billion, and by the way, it would never get built. It wouldn't be built in 20 years from now. And they like it so much, they gave up the plan. They think this is better. It's a better location, it's probably a better building. But I could tell you stories like that all night long, the aircraft carriers that cost 10 times more than they should cost, and then they use the electric catapults. You've heard that. Right? They don't want to use steam. Why? Because it's too simple, because it works, because it's better. So they go to electric catapults that they're working on for years now. Elevators that are operated my magnets instead of hydraulic. Magnets. It sounds good. Trust me, it doesn't work. One little glass of water. We're in the ocean. One little glass of water, boom, those magnets are gone. I could have told them that. I actually asked the architect, " Have you ever built a ship before?" It's unbelievable. You heard the story last night about Air Force One. It saved a lot of money. I said to Boeing, "No. It's got to have a three in front of it." They were going to buy Air Force One, 5.7 billion. It's a lot of money, but look, it's a helluva a deal. It's a helluva a plane. What can I tell you. I said, "How much is the new plane?" It was signed by Obama. "5.7 billion, sir." I said, "That's a lot of money." It's actually two planes. Air Force One is two planes. I'll give you a little. They're going to say, "That's classified information." Well, they've been flying around with two planes for 30 years, so I assume somebody knows. And our Air Force One is 31 years old. Right? So, look, it's time. A lot of the Arab sheiks come in. I see their plane. They have a brand new one. I say, "What do we have?" 31 years, and we're protecting them. Why the hell don't we have a new one? So they finally had, at 31 years old. The new one is totally different, 747. It's much longer, bigger wingspan, much more beautiful. It's modern, it's beautiful. 5.7 billion. So I said to the head of Boeing, nice guy, Dennis, this was before they had their difficulty, which is terrible what happened to them, but I said to him, "Dennis, I'm not going to spend $5.7 billion on a plane. I'm not going to do it. I won't do it. It's too much." I said last night, I told this story, first time, I said, "It's got to have a three on it." He said, "We can't do it. No." He called me up the following day, "We'll take 200 million off." Somebody said, "Well, what are you losing?" I said, "Nothing. In fact, we're gaining a generator." And I said, "You got to build an extra generator." He said, "We'll take 200 million off." I said, "Nope." I said to the general in charge, I said, "General, can we break the deal?" "Yes, sir, we can. We have a cancellation clause." "Good. General, execute your cancellation clause. We're not going to buy it. I'm not going to pay $5.7 billion for Air Force One. I'm not doing it." He said, "Yes, sir. I'm very proud of this clause." "Why? Why?" "Because we have the right to cancel." "Well, do we have to pay anything?" "Yes, sir, $250 million." I said, "General, don't cancel it. Take it back. Just tell them we don't like the plane. Okay?" And I couldn't even say, "I'm going to buy it from Europe." The only competitor is Europe. I can't say, "We'll buy it from Europe." No, that doesn't work out to well. So I said, "Don't do it. I don't want to send them a check." 250 million for nothing. Right? We don't want to do it. So I said, "Just tell them, "We don't like it. The price is too high. We're not going to buy it." But don't send anything, don't put it in writing. Please, general." "Yes, sir." "Thank you." So about a week later, the head of Boeing called me up. He said, "Look, we can get it down, but you're asking for too much." I said, "You don't understand. It has to have a three on it, not a four, but three." So another months goes by. I forgot about it. I get a call from Boeing, "Would 3.9 billion be okay?" I said, "Yes, that's okay. It's got a three on it." True. True story. True story, and then somebody said … it's true though, somebody said, "Well, it must be a different plane." Yeah. I said, "Yeah, we have a much nicer paint job." We have a much nicer paint job, you know that, and it actually got an extra generator put on. Okay? So it's actually more. They said, "well, we could use an extra generator." I said, "Is there anything else you need?" They said, "Sir, we could use an extra generator." I said, "We'll get it for you, we'll get it." So I had it included in the price. These people know exactly what I'm talking about. It's called included in the price. But think of it, there's hundreds of deals like that. But you're one person, and that's why I got Mark Meadows involved, because he's from North Carolina. He's from North Carolina, and he's cheap as hell. I need some cheap people. Oh, there's many, hundreds and hundreds of stories. I could tell you so much. It's crazy. The Biden agenda would collapse our economy and destroy your country. It would destroy your Social Security and protections for preexisting conditions, it will. He's going to drain your Medicare by giving away our healthcare to illegal immigrants. And I will tell you this, you're going to have socialized medicine. That's as sure as you're there. And Obama lied 28 times when he said you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan. It was a lie. Said it 28 times, that we have, but it was a lie. But now you're really losing your doctor. You're going to have socialized medicine. Eliminate private healthcare insurance for 180 million Americans who love their healthcare. They have the best in the world. His running mate sponsored the socialist takeover of healthcare. You saw that. He wants to ban private insurance. You're going to lose … 180 million people are going to lose their healthcare under this Biden character, and he has no clue. They're going to take it away from him. They're going to be running him ragged. "Sign this. Sign this." "Okay. What is it?" "Doesn't matter. Just sign it, President, right now." "I'm getting tired. I'd like to rest, I'd like to let Kamala take over as president." That's no way to get into the office, because we're going to have a woman president someday, but you know what? It can't be Kamala. Kamala. Nobody treated him worse, and he picked her. I'll tell you, I was … brilliant forecast. He could never pick her. She called him a racist. Right? She talked about Me Too-ing him. He was going to be Me Too-ed. Right? Me-Too-ed. A lot of bad things. There was nobody. Think of it, even Pocahontas treated him better. She knocked the hell out of Bloomberg, but she left him sort of alone. I think she felt sorry for him. I heard she felt sorry for him. I don't want people to feel sorry for our president. I want other people, really, to feel sorry for themselves, because we have somebody that knows what they're doing. We can't have it. We can joke, we can play games, we can have fun. You can't have this guy as your president. You can't have him. Maybe I'll sign an executive order. You cannot have him as your president. No, but you know this. Everybody knows this. And you know what? People are going to vote for him because they feel sorry for him. I feel sorry for him too. I feel sorry for him. And maybe he'll show up for an hour-and-a-half at a debate. Who the hell knows? I don't know. But you know. You see the condition he's in. You can't have him as your president. And you know what? You can't have her as your vice president, potentially going to be president. And that's why they're pushing so hard, because they know he's going to be out very soon, and she's going to take over. And she is the furthest left person of anybody. She is rated, not by me, she is rated further left than even Bernie Sanders. Okay? He's second, she's first. We will hire more police. Thank you, sheriffs. Thank you, sheriffs. I love the sheriffs. We got the endorsement from all the sheriffs in Florida, everybody up in Ohio and Texas. We have the stuff, nobody's ever seen anything like it, the endorsements from law enforcement. We're going to increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement. We will ban deadly sanctuary cities. We will defeat everybody that we have to, including the virus, but we will defend the dignity of work, and we will defend the sanctity of life. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens, and we will keep … You know this, right? It's okay, right? We will keep America out of these ridiculous foreign wars. We will maintain American's unrivaled military might, and we will ensure peace through strength. It's about time. We will end surprise medical bills, require price transparency, and further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs, which we're doing an unbelievable job on, other than the fact that the drug companies are spending a fortune, because they don't like me much. You will see drug prices, prescription drugs, dropping 50, 60, 70% in a very short period of time. Favored nations clauses. We will strongly protect Medicare and Social Security, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. You have to see what we've done with NASA. We'll be the first one on Mars, I hope. We will stop the radical indoctrination of our students and restore patriot education to our schools, patriotic education. We will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, and we will never change it, by the way. We will never change it. They took the word, "God", out of the Pledge of Allegiance twice. I said, "Did they make a mistake." Did they make a mistake. They didn't for them. They made a mistake for us. We're not going to put up with it. But we will keep, "In God we trust." For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for the great people of North Carolina. This is the most important election we've ever had. Remember it. We're going to be a socialist country. We're going to be a communist country. These people are further … they're much further left than socialism. These people are sick. So get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and get out and vote. Get out and vote. And watch to make sure they're not cheating, which they will be. Early voting has already begun. Don't wait. Get out and vote. We got to win this. If we win this state, we're going to win the whole thing. This is a very important state. If we win North Carolina, we're going to win the whole thing, because we're doing well everywhere, from Wilmington to Charlotte, from Concord to Raleigh, and from Greensboro to right here in Fayetteville. We inherit the legacy of generations of North Carolina patriots, who gave their blood, sweat and tears for this beloved nation. Proud citizens like you, helped build this country. And together, we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, with your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. You hear that, General? We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together, with the incredible people of North Carolina, we will make America wealthy again, we will America strong again, we will make America proud again. We will America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you very much. Get out and vote, vote, vote, vote.We brought you a lot of car plants, Michigan. We brought you a lot of car plants. You know that, right? Long time, it's been a long time since you had all these plants being built, but we brought you a lot over the last three and a half years, and we're going to bring you a lot more. That's happening. Hello, Michigan and I'm thrilled to be in Freeland with thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots. Fifty-four days from now, we're going to win Michigan, and we're going to win four more years in the White House. This is the most important election in the history of our country. Joe Biden devoted his career to offshoring Michigan's jobs, outsourcing- We shouldn't be smiling about it, but we've changed it around. Outsourcing Michigan's factories, throwing open your borders, dragging us into endless foreign wars and surrendering our children's future to China and other far away lands. Biden supported every disastrous globalist sellout for over a half a century, including NAFTA, China, and DPP. You know that. Joe Biden surrendered your jobs to China and now he wants to surrender our country to the violent left wing mob and you're seeing that every night. If Biden wins, China wins. If Biden wins, the mob wins. If Biden wins, the rioters, anarchist, arsonist and flag burners win. But I wouldn't worry about it because he's not winning. I don't think he's winning. This is not the crowd of a person who comes in second place. You do know that. The same thing happened four years ago. It was election eve but by the time I got here, it was late. Some of you are in that audience at one o'clock in the morning now election day. We had 32,000 people show up and the reason I went is that I heard that crooked Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton and Barack Hussein Obama were traveling to Michigan because they heard they had problems. They were supposed to win Michigan, but they did such a lousy job that they had to come and get some votes. They came and I heard about it. They said, "Sir, could you do it?" I hopped in the plane. We landed at 12 o'clock in the evening. I started speaking at one o'clock in the morning now election day. 32,000 people. She had 500 people. I said, "Why are we going to lose Michigan?" And we didn't. And we didn't. First time in a long time, but now we're up in the polls. We just saw polls. We're up in Michigan. I don't know if that's good or bad. I don't know. I don't know if that's good or bad because in all those polls where we were down last time, we won. So maybe we're better off being down a little bit. Hello, John James. I see you handsome guy. John James, get out and vote for John. I'm going to introduce you in a second John James. What a job you've done. I have to tell you, he took, I saw this group of people that were running, all nice people, three very rich people and one guy that was John James and I saw them all. Right? I saw them all and I said, "Wait." With the wonderful invention of TiVo, one of the greats, you can play it back. I said, "Who was that?" He said, "I don't know, sir." I said, "Play it back." I said, "That man is going to be a star." It was John James. That was in the Republican primary. After learning about him with his incredible career and helicopter, and he's a great, and actually a great flyer I heard the other day, a great one, a really good one as opposed to those that aren't so good, but his incredible background and education at West Point and all of the things he did. I said, "This guy" and I endorsed him and he went like a rocket ship. Frankly, if he had a little more support, he would have won the last time. This time, I hear you're even, and maybe even ahead, and we're going to win with John James. He's a great guy, but I'm going to introduce him in a second. I'm running for reelection to keep jobs in Michigan. We have got a lot of … Last year before the China plague came in, we have the China plague. Thank you China very much. Should have never let that happen. They should have never, ever let it happen. They stopped it from going into China, but they didn't stop it from coming out here and coming into the US, in Europe and the rest of the world, 188 countries. But it is what it is and we're not happy about it and we're going to remember it. We're going to remember it, but we had in Michigan and in the country, the greatest economy in the history of the world, there has never been an economy. Now, we're building it again and it's being built fast. By the way, it's turning out to be John, a super V. No more V. Now it's starting out to be a super V, but to put violent criminals behind bars and to ensure the future belongs to America, not to China, because if we win, America wins and that's what it's about. If we win, America wins. Not only does Joe Biden want to eliminate your jobs, he wants to eliminate your borders. He's promised to flood your state with refugees. You know that as well as I do. You see it all the time. From terrorist hotspots around the world, including Syria, Somalia, and Yemen, Biden's pledged to have a 700% increase. He made this deal with crazy Bernie, a 700% increase in the flow of refugees. So, he wants to lift it up by 700%. This is in their manifesto. He's also pledged to terminate all national security travel bans, overwhelming your state with poorly vetted migrants from jihadist regions. Making matters worse, he would open the flood gates in the middle of a pandemic. By the way, the wall, it's over 311 miles long right now doing very well. Doing very well. Make the mic louder, the mic louder. Biden is waging war against the American middle class. I think most of you are not middle class. You're upper class. You're the elite. You know the way they talk about the elite, the elite, they're really elite. I see them. They're not elite. You're the elite. The elite has decided. Boy, have we hurt the elite, haven't we now? You're the super elite. The left wants to get rid of me so they can come after you. It's very simple. Over the last three and a half years, we've secured America's borders, blocked the entry of foreign terrorist, fixed our disastrous trade deals and we have fixed our trade deals good. They are good. In fact, Biden was interviewed today on … There they are. CNN. No, he was just interviewed today. He was interviewed by Jake Tapper who I find to be a nice guy. I don't think he likes me too much, but that's okay. He was interviewed on CNN and they said, "Which is better, NAFTA or the USMCA?" He said, "No, no, the USMCA." Tapper goes, "What?" Couldn't believe it. He said USMCA. He made a mistake. From his perspective, he made a mistake because he doesn't know what's going on. Even though he's right, he doesn't know. There were a little surprised to hear that. They gave him a few chances. Let's ask that question again, but we brought back our manufacturing jobs. We rebuilt the awesome power of the US military. We obliterated the ISIS caliphate and built the greatest economy in the history of the world. Now, we are doing it again bigger and better than ever before. Before the end of the year, we will have a safe and effective vaccine and we will defeat the China virus. I have a feeling … By the way, I think the vaccine is going to come very soon, going to come very soon. With it or without it, we're rounding the turn. You see what's happening. You see the numbers are plunging. You see how good we're doing relative to other countries and other parts of the world, but the fake news doesn't like saying that. They don't like telling you that. Next year, unless you have somebody that's going to quadruple your taxes, raise your taxes, raise up all of those regulations that we cut, next year will be one of the greatest years of the history of our country. At no time before has there been a clearer choice between two parties, two visions, two philosophies, and two agendas for the future. There's never been a vision like this. You have sleepy Joe and you have Trump. Sleepy Joe, he's a beauty. He's a beauty. He's a beauty. I watched the Democrat debates, right? I watched them up there and he was so bad. I said, "There's no way he makes it." It's sad, isn't it? The first lady actually came in and one time she watched it and she goes, and she's a nice person. She meant this really, me, I view it differently. But she looked at, she watched the debate and she watched Joe and she said, "Darling, it's so sad." This was early on. This is the guy I'm running against. It's so sad. Darling, it's so sad. But we got them. Joe Biden has put forward the most extreme platform and it's not him. He doesn't know what platform. He doesn't. It's your radical left people. It's AOC plus three. It's all these people. Bernie. It's Bernie. It's Kamala, the most liberal person in the US Senate. I tell it all the time. She started off her poll numbers at 15, 14, 12, 12. Then she went back up to 12 and a half. Then there was a big plunge right down to the bottom and then she dropped out. She dropped out, but there's never been anything like this. No major party has ever had a candidate that's so extreme in his views. Again, he took the manifesto drawn up by Bernie and the super lips and that's what he's going by, including a massive increase in your taxes and a total assault on your second amendment. On November 3rd, Michigan, you better vote for me. I got you so many damn car plants. I'll tell you what, I'll be so angry at you. I got you a lot of plants. Is that right? I mean, have you seen how we're doing here? All the plants that have been built, are being built and what about the plants that are being expanded? They don't want to give you credit for that. They just expanded. I went to Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I say, "Prime Minister, you have to start doing something." He's a great guy. He'll be retiring soon. He's a great guy, the prime minister of Japan, Abe. I say, "Shinzō, Shinzō, you have to do me a favor. You've got to send car plants over here. You're sending all those cars. We stupidly don't. Now they've been building it for a number of years, but you hadn't had a plan built in like 42 years. They were the old plants. And it's been amazing what's happened in Michigan. But honestly, it's been amazing what's happened in Ohio and North Carolina and South Carolina and Florida and New Hampshire and so many other places. Our country is doing great. We had to take a pause to get rid of the China virus, and we got rid … We're coming around. We're coming around that turn. I'm telling you, you watch, next year, better than last year. It's going to be better than last year. Michigan will decide whether we will quickly return to record prosperity, or whether we'll allow Sleepy Joe to impose $4 trillion in tax hikes, ban American energy, confiscate your guns, shut down the economy, and tell your governor to open up your state. It's all Democrat governors. And I think they do it for political reasons because there'll be less activity. You'd be doing even better if you had a governor that knew what the hell she was doing. You got to open it up the state. And also, you have to have a governor because right now Michigan's lagging. Great football, great coach, great team. We want a governor, John James, that's going to let Michigan play Big Ten football this year. You've been seeing a lot of the other schools want to open Big Ten at my suggestion. How about Sleepy Joe? He said, "Donald Trump is against football." No, no, no. I'm the one that says open it up, let's play football. These people practice disinformation like nobody has ever practiced it. They're liars. I'll tell you, they lie. But we have a good chance. You have a very good commissioner, and the commissioner is working hard, and hopefully, very soon they'll say you're going to play football. And I hope they're not leaving Michigan out because it's never the same if they do. But you have Maryland, where they have a problem in terms of playing. And the governors have a lot of power over that. They have a lot of power, a lot of say. So let's play Big Ten football, right? They want to shut down auto production, delay the vaccine. They want to destroy your suburbs. Look at what I've done for your suburbs. You know what I've done. You know what I've done. Does anybody want to have somebody from Antifa as a member and as a resident of your suburb? I don't think so too much. Say, "Darling, who moved in next door?" "Oh, it's a resident of Antifa." "No, thank you. Let's get out of here. Let's get the hell out of here, darling. Let's leave our suburbs. I wish Trump were president. He wouldn't have allowed that to happen." And that's exactly right, I won't allow it to happen. The suburbs are the American dream, and I will tell you, I have protected your suburbs. I got rid of a regulation that played with your zoning and played with other things, where they force projects into the suburbs of our great country. And I got rid of it. They said, "Sir, we can amend it and make it less crazy." I said, "No, I don't want to amend it. I don't want to do that. I want to get rid of it." "Well, sir, why don't we just do a simple amendment? It would be" … I said, "I want to get rid of it. End it." And we ended it. We ended it. I think the people living in the suburbs … which I know very well. I watched Westchester in New York where they were doing things that should never have been done, and it's not going to happen to our suburbs. They want to erase your borders and indoctrinate your children with poisonous anti-American lies in our schools. Not going to happen. Not going to happen. For the last four years, they've tried everything to stop us, and they are only getting more desperate by the day. Can you imagine if on September 3rd, they say, "Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump has been declared the winner. Donald Trump has been declared" … At first, they'll go crazy. And then they'll say, "Okay, it's time now to be reasonable." They will have had it. They will have had it. We were coming together as a nation. Very interesting. Before the plague came in from China, we will coming together. It was success. Somebody said, "What's going to bring you together?" And it was. We were coming together. I was starting to get calls from Democrats that … Frankly, we didn't speak much. And I was starting to get calls, and then all of a sudden we saw the plague pour in, and we saw what was happening, and it really stopped things. But success was getting very, very close to bringing us all together. And then we had to say, "Let's take a time out. We got to fix this mess." And we did, and now we're coming back strong, but success brings us together, and it was happening, and then we got that terrible situation happened, and we'll never forget it. Biden and his party tried to lock law-abiding Americans into their homes while they encourage rioters and vandals rampaging through, in all cases, Democrat-run cities. Republican-run cities are doing very well. I hope you know that. And I hope you know, like in Minneapolis, we were asked to come in, we went in, we took care of that problem in about, what, 30 minutes? Unfortunately, they let almost two weeks go by. And if you look at what we just did in Wisconsin, which was so amazing, three days, and we went in. And by the way, the US Marshals went in to get the killer, and that was the end of that. They got the killer, they got the killer. You know what I'm talking about. And we were going to go into Seattle. The next day, we're all set, all lined up, looking forward to it. We just said, "We're doing it." I mean, they actually took over a part of the city, and the mayor said, "This is going to be a summer of love," right? Where do these people come from? But we were all set to go in there, heard we were going in, we informed them we're going in, and they sent their police to do it, and we never even had to go in. But we can solve those problems in a matter of literally minutes. Thank you. Don't say that, I'll start to cry, and that wouldn't be good for my image. You don't want to see me cry. I'll start to cry. One of the fake news broadcasters, because this happened the other day, we had a tremendous crowd like this. I mean, we had a tremendous crowd in North Carolina. They started chanting, "We love you. We love you. We love you." And it's incredible, they said with all the years that they've been covering presidential elections, they've never heard that chant that, "We love you." No, it's very nice. No, they've never heard it. True. Now they'll say, "He misrepresented. 18 years ago, there was a rally held by somebody, and we heard the words from two people that, ‘We love you, sir.'" Now this is what we're dealing with. And by the way, I look out, there's a lot of people that … Look at this. There's people back there that can't even get in. Thank you, Michigan. Thank you. It's really nice to be with you. As president, I will always support the heroes of law enforcement. I was very honored to receive the endorsement of the Police Officers Association of Michigan. Where are they? Where are they? They're here someplace. Where are they? Thank you, fellows. That's really nice. I'll tell you. That's an honor. I have to be honest. I got it from Florida, Texas, Ohio, North Carolina, South … But Michigan is Michigan. Thank you. I don't think there's any law enforcement officer that is against us. What is our poll number? 99. I know they had 365,000 at one group, and they got a unanimous vote. I said, "That's pretty good". How can you go the other way? You people are fantastic, and we love you. Thank you. That's great. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Biden says he wants to protect Black lives, but his radical platform will cut short the lives of thousands of young African American citizens. Thousands. The murder rate in Democrat-run cities like Chicago, Baltimore, New York, so many others is higher than in Afghanistan, yet Biden supports imposing these failed policies nationwide. You will have crime like you've never seen before. You'll have crime like you've never seen. Last week, Joe Biden proudly accepted the endorsement of the pro-criminal Portland district attorney, who has a policy of releasing rioters, criminals, and violent extremists without charge. Biden's plan … And every time I say Biden's plan, it's not his plan, it's the people that tell them what they're going to do, so please understand. I just don't want to say that every time I mention his name. So it should say, "The people that control Biden's plan" is to appease domestic terrorists. My plan is to arrest them, to lock them up. If Joe Biden is elected, far left lunatics won't just be running failed Democrat city, they'll be running the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, and the United States Supreme Court, and we can't let that happen. No city, town, or suburb will be safe. On November 3rd, your vote will save America. Remember, it's the most important election we've ever had. I'm joined tonight by some great warriors that have really helped me a lot in Washington with the fake impeachment, the impeachment hoax, the Russia, Russia, Russia hoax. Somebody said Russia's coming up again. Adam Schiff said, "We'd like to find out about" … I said, "What about China? What about other countries?" It's always Russia. Russia, Russia. They're at it again. I want to just thank these guys because these were real warriors for all of us. They love your state, and they love our country. Congressman Jack Bergman. Great job, Jack. John Moolenaar. Thank you, John. Great. Great going, John. He's a tough cookie. And Tim Walberg. Tim, thank you. Great job. What great people. And I talked about him a little while before, I could talk about him all night. He's a star. He's going to be a future star. We have a very much different party than we had four years ago. We're now the party of the workers. We're the party of a lot of different things now, but we weren't really considered the party of the workers. Certainly not anymore. Remember this, we're the party of Abraham Lincoln. A lot of people forget that. Honestly. Remember when they used to say, "he doesn't act presidential"? And I used to say, "It's so easy to be presidential." I'd only have about 10 or 15 people here. You'd be bored. But remember I used to do that? But I'd always say, "I can be more presidential than any president in our history, except for the possibility of Abraham Lincoln when he wears his hat." Tough to beat. That's tough to beat, John James. But seriously, if you want to be well-represented … Your current Senator, I don't even know this guy. I don't even know this guy. Nobody does. They don't know who he is. They don't even know. He comes into the office, I say, "Who is that guy?" I know every Senator. Democrat, Republican. I don't know this guy. I know your other Senator. I can tell by her hair. She's got interesting hair. But that was John's first crack. He learned a lot. And frankly, and I mean this, if he had more support from the Republican Party, he would've won that race. He would've. But this guy Peters, right? Peters. I say, "Who's Peters?" Nobody knows him. He doesn't do anything. I mean, look, we're going to end this, but I have to tell you, John James can be so great. He loves our country. He's been educated at the highest level. He was always the top at everything he's ever done. And this is what he has. And I'll be honest with you, John. I think I can tell this story. John and I were thinking about John. I was thinking about John more than myself because I know talent. And I said, "John, you can run for a certain House seat, right? And you're guaranteed to win. You can run for another House seat. It'll be a tough race, but you're going to win. Or you can have a tough race against somebody that nobody ever heard of. It's like a habit that they press that particular trigger, but that's a tough race. So you can be an absolute Congressman, or you can take a shot at this one." He said, "Sir, I can do more in the Senate than I can do in the House." And that was his decision. Right? Took a lot of guts. So John, I'm with you. You have my total and complete endorsement. You have everything I can do. Everything I can do, we will do for you. And I really believe you're going to make it. You're running against somebody that is just ridiculous, folks. It's ridiculous. Don't do it. Also with us are some other great candidates and people that are going to do a tremendous job, helping our Congressman. Paul Junge. Where's Paul Junge? Paul, thank you. Good luck. I heard you're doing well, Paul. Paul Junge. Lisa McClain. Lisa? Great job. It's going well. And Eric Essahki. Thank you, Eric. Good luck. Good luck. We're going to be out here helping you, too. We're going to be out here. I hope John doesn't even need help, but we're going to help John, too. We're going to help all of you. All right? We're going to be doing it. Thank you. Also with you is RNC Chairwoman. She was the head of the whole state, and she kept calling me back, back. "Sir, one more speech, you're going to win Michigan." Hadn't been won in decades. "One more speech, sir, you're going to win Michigan." I said, "All right. Ron, I'm coming in one more time, but that's it." I said, "That woman is the most aggressive person I've ever met." She said, "I'm telling you, sir, one more speech." I said, "All right, I'll do it one more time, but that's it." About a day after I got back, I said, "I just got back from Michigan. It was wonderful." I get a call from Ronna McDaniel, and she goes, "Sir, could you come in tomorrow for another speech?" Well, whatever happens, she is the one that got me here at midnight on … She is. So when it came time to picking the head of the RNC, as president, you have a couple of things to say about it, right? I said, "Who's that woman that kept getting me back to Michigan? Boy oh boy, she'll be great." Ronna McDaniel. And somebody's doing a fantastic job and tells us we're really pretty far ahead. Maybe way ahead. They had a poll. I think it was a Gallup poll. They said 62% of the people are lying about their poll. Now, they're only lying having to do with my … And I don't know if I'm supposed to be insulted by that or not, but we'll take it. But we could have a very big win. And look, no president has done for Michigan what President Trump has done for Michigan. And you're going to remember that. And I'm going to remember Michigan. Michigan GOP Chair Laura Cox. Great. Thank you. Great job. Great job. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks, Laura. We spent the last four years reversing the horrible damage Joe Biden inflicted over the last 47 years. 47 years of bad votes. After the last administration nearly killed the US auto industry, I saved the US auto industry. Joe Biden supported the disastrous Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have been a death sentence for American auto jobs. I withdrew from the TPP my first week in office. That was so easy. That was so easy. You wouldn't have been making cars. You would've been buying cars from foreign lands. We have enough of that. Biden supported the horrendous South Korea deal that would've wiped out US production of the pickup truck, which is the most … The pickup truck is the most profitable thing the auto industry makes. You know why? We have something called the Chicken Tax. Does anyone know what I'm talking about? The Chicken Tax. It's a tariff of 25%, and it keeps other countries out of here, and it expired, and South Korea didn't want to do it, but they did it. We got it right back, and we put it on for a long time, and now you're making … But remember this, go check it out. The Chicken Tax. I'll tell you why someday at another meeting why they call it that. Maybe you don't want to know about it. But we're keeping those small trucks, and we're keeping our whole industry good. And we're expanding our autos now, our cars, and we're doing a great job of it, and I want to thank everybody. Doing a great job. And by the way, many other things in Michigan. Biden supported the outrageous fuel economy standards that have hammered the auto industry, and I reversed that rule. I actually reversed it, and it helped millions of families be able to afford a car. The United States lost 500 auto and auto parts factories under the Obama-Biden disaster. Before the virus, my administration added over 200 new auto and auto parts plants. How about 200? I didn't know that. 200. 200. I thought it was a little less than that. Wait, I want to see that again. 200. It's … … than that. Wait, I want to see that again, 200. It says 200. Do you believable it? That's a lot. You know, I have a choice between teleprompter and freelance. I hate to say, the freelance is always a hell of a lot better, but … If you remember, and you remember well, I actually got elected because of freelance. We didn't have teleprompters. There were no teleprompters. But think of that, 200, we're talking about 200 plants. I thought it was a much lower number. I thought you should put me in an office based on a much lower number. At 200, you have no choice. Yesterday, Biden was in Michigan. He said, "I better get out of the basement." This guy is starting to do very well lying about his lifetime of cold hearted globalist betrayals. Biden championed NAFTA, perhaps the worst trade deal in the history of our country. He continued to embrace and promote NAFTA for decades. I told you, he just said it was not as good as the deal I made. I can't believe, oh they're giving him hell tonight. They're giving him hell. What did you say that for? Boy oh boy. Yeah, hiding. ‘Joe Hiden.' Look, this doesn't sound nice. I'll say it, and they'll criticize for it, you watch. But I have the distinct pleasure of running against the worst presidential candidate in the history of presidential politics. I really believe that. I do. Can you imagine if I lost to him? I'd have to say I lost to the worst candidate ever put up. Don't do that to me, Michigan. Don't do that. Biden supported China's entry into the World Trade Organization, which, by the way, was a disaster. China was flatlining for years and years and decades and it got into this World Trade Organization with all sorts of advantages. Just a terrible, terrible situation took place. That's when China became a big, powerful economic power. But, if you look at the numbers just before the plague, now, the numbers are different, we were going up, up, up, we were beating them like a drum. They weren't even close. We were gaining, gaining, gaining. We were number one by far. You know, for years I've heard that in 2019, China was going to surpass us. Well, in 2019, we gained a lot on them. We were doing great. We were doing great and we'll be doing even better next year, you watch. Yesterday it was revealed that a fund partly owned by Joe Biden's son, where's Hunter? See his first name, I now name … His first name is where. Where's Hunter? He must be a brilliant guy because with no experience he's taken more money from more countries. He had no job and then he became rich. But where's Hunter who facilitated the sale of a Michigan automotive company to a leading Chinese military defense contractor? Does anyone know that China's military got yet another piece of American manufacturing, Mike and the Biden family made a lot of money on it. It was a lot of money. What about Ukraine? He got $183,000 a month, $3 million upfront and he had no experience with energy, working for an energy company, by the way. What's your experience, Hunter? What's your experience with energy? "I don't have any." "Okay. We'll pay you 183,000 a month and I will give you an upfront payment, Hunter, of $3 million. Will that be satisfactory?" He goes, "Yes. I'll take it." Would anybody here not take that deal? Anybody? Please raise your head. This is one guy, right, you must be a pretty rich guy. If Biden's elected, China will own America. Washington vultures like Biden and others ripped apart entire towns all across your state. Michigan lost half of all manufacturing jobs after the trade deals that Biden supported. By the way, I don't know if anybody … But does anybody remember like 12 years ago? Long before I thought about running for president, when I enjoyed my life, I had the greatest life. "Where would we like to go? Let's go to Monte-Carlo this weekend. Let's go." No, I had a great life, but I was honored. I was doing very well. I was honored in Michigan. Does anybody know that? I was given man of the year award by somebody? I came in and I spent like 45 minutes talking about how you've been ripped off, how all your auto companies are leaving and going to Mexico and, by the way, to Canada too. But how they're all leaving and going to Mexico and Canada. I spent the whole time talking about it. At the end I felt embarrassed, I said, "I hope I haven't insulted the state too much, but why do you let this happen?" I stopped it. I stopped. It won't be happening. It won't be happening. It's not going to happen anymore. Biden took a sledgehammer to your state earlier this year, I kept my promise to Michigan workers when we ended the NAFTA nightmare that everybody said was impossible to end, and when we signed that brand new US- Mexico-Canada agreement into law. The USMCA includes powerful wage protections to keep auto manufacturing jobs right here in Michigan. Now they have a tremendous disincentive to leave Michigan, fire all of our workers, go to Mexico or Canada, make the car or the product, send it in here without tariffs. We end up with closed factories, no job and no taxes. That's not happening anymore. That's not happening anymore. But do you remember how bad it was just before I took office? It was like an avalanche of companies leaving our country. I also took the toughest ever action to stand up to China's rampant theft of Michigan jobs. Biden has vowed to remove these tariffs and allow China to resume its pillaging. Just so you know, China's paying us tens of billions of dollars a month. Before me, China never paid anything. They didn't pay us 25 cents. You know what I did with some of that money? I gave it to our farmers. I don't know if we have a lot, do we have farmers here? We have farmers. Raise your hands farmers. That's not bad No, I gave $28 billion to our farmers because they were targeted by China. They were targeted. They said, "You know …" and that's what they did in the past to other presidents. They said, "If you do this, we're going to stop doing business with your farmers and you're not going to be able to get any votes and you're going to lose the Midwest and all of that." I said, "You know what? I do, whatever you want." Then I went to Sonny Perdue, Secretary Of Agriculture, a great guy, I said, Sonny, "How much are they being targeted for?" "Sir, $12 billion the first year, two years, three years ago, and then 16 billion, a total of 28 billion." I said, "That's okay. We're putting tariffs on everything they send into our country, 25%." Was going to raise it to 50%. Also, 10% at 12%, all different tariffs. We took in billions and billions, and I said, "You know what we're going to do? We're going to take, of that, the 12 and the 16, $28 billion and we're going to give it to our farmers who were targeted," and our farmers are doing great. That's what we did. Do you think Joe Biden would do that? He wouldn't have a clue. Hillary wouldn't have had a clue. Crazy Bernie wouldn't have, nobody would add a clue on that one. By the way, we had tens of billions of dollars left over. You know what I did with that? We gave it to the US Treasury, right smack into the heart of the US Treasury. And we're still getting those big tariffs. Even though we made a trade deal with China. I said, "No, you got to leave the tariffs on." A lot of people didn't know it. Schumer went, "Well, I don't like to do …" First of all, he didn't like tariffs, and then all of a sudden he loves it. But when I made the deal with China, I left the tariffs on 25% and some different amounts. When I left tariffs largely on and nobody could believe it. I said to Schumer, "What do you think of the deal?" "I don't like it because you got rid of the tariffs." I said, "No, we left the tariffs on." This is what it is. No matter how you do it, no matter how good the deal, they'll say, "It's no good," because they don't love the country. They don't love the country. Remember that. Joe Biden's agenda is made in China. My agenda is made in the USA. That's a nice plane. Somebody said to me, "Your plane's just as nice as that." I said, "No, it's not. That's Air Force One. That's the nicest." Always, that's the nicest. I also authorize millions of dollars to save Michigan Soo Locks, and forget all the problems they had. For years and years, they fought over the money to do it. We got $300 million to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, and we have done a job on the Soo Locks. They were rotting you. Weren't going to have anything come through the Soo Locks. It's all done. That deal is all done. It's all done. Right? Thank you. Thank you. Where are my guys there? Good job. Right. Even though you're law enforcement, that's a good job, right? Two months ago, I also issued a major disaster declaration in response to the catastrophic flooding caused by the failure of the Edenville dam. Where are the people from Edenville? Yeah, good. No, that was a terrible thing and they're working very hard right now. We're providing more than $43 million in federal funds to help homeowners, businesses and communities in central Michigan to recover from that catastrophe. Thank you. Perhaps in no area have our opponents more thoroughly betrayed working families of all backgrounds than on the subject of immigration. Under my administration, we've achieved the most secure border in American history. We've ended catch and release, stopped asylum fraud, and we've deported over 20,000 vicious gang members and over a half a million criminal illegal aliens. As I said, we've already built over 310 miles of border wall. It's all going to be finished very quickly. We're averaging about 10 new, brand new, beautiful miles every single week. It'll be finished very short. We've invested $2.5 trillion in the US military. All made in the USA, by the way. All made in the USA. You know, with the fake news today, I said, "And we have systems and missiles and rockets and military and tech. We have systems that you've never even seen before. President Xi has nothing like it. Putin has nothing like it. Nobody has anything like what we have." They said, "Is he giving away military information?" No, I'm saying, "We have the greatest weapons in the world." That's what I'm saying. They said, "He may be giving away classified information." You don't have to worry about it. These people are sick. Never speak well about our technology because you're giving away classified information. Now, I just want to let people know, we have the greatest systems, the greatest equipment and the greatest people anywhere in the world. There's nobody like the US military. We have the most powerful military in the world. When I took it over, it was depleted. It was in trouble and was exhausted from these ridiculous, endless wars that lasts 19 and 20 years, and you know, those soldiers are starting to come home very big. You know that right?. We passed the MISSION Act, we call it VA Choice and VA Accountability. We hold people accountable if they don't treat our vets good, you're fired. Get out. You're fine. We did more in 47 months than sleepy Joe Biden did in 47 years. That's true. We did more. That sort of has a nice ring to it. Right? Think of it. We did more and it's true. Just take a look, Space Force, by itself, that would be a major achievement, and with us, we did so many things, so many things. But we did more in 47 months than he did in 47 years. It's true. It's true. A lot of what I did is destroy some of the horrible things that they did, including regulations all over the place. I withdrew from the last administration's disastrous Iran nuclear deal. We paid $150 billion, 1.8 billion in cash. We ought to speak to law enforcement about that. How do we send 1.8 billion in cash? In cash? You guys ought to take a look at that please. I kept my promise, recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Every president said they were going to do that and none of them did it, for decades and decades, they all said. I tell this story, it was a hard thing to get done. It was easy to talk about in the campaign, "We're going to open up the embassy in Jerusalem. We're going to make it. It becomes automatically the capital of Israel." Everybody said it for very, very many decades, for decades, many presidents. But I realize now why it was an effort because as soon as I got in, I was lobbied by everybody, "Please don't do it. Don't do it. Don't make the capital of Israel Jerusalem. Don't move your embassy." So went on and on. Then I said, "Let's do it anyway." It's true. And the word got out. The word got out that I was going to do it, and I was called by every king and every queen and every prime minister and every … Everybody was calling me, "Please sir, don't do it. Please." So I did what we sometimes will do in business, I told them … When a king calls, when somebody calls, an Emir, when somebody calls, tell them, "I'll call them back in a few days. I'm sorry, sir. He won't be able to speak right now, he'll call you back on Wednesday. Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate it." On Tuesday, I announced that I'm doing it. Then I got on the phone with 18 different companies. I go, "Hey, how you doing? You called, I'm just returning your call." "Oh, it's too late, sir. We called about Israel. It's too late." I said, "Gee, I'm sorry. I wish you got to me a little bit sooner." I recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights and we achieved the first breakthrough in Middle East peace in decades. And by the way, on Wednesday, I believe of next week, Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and as you know, the country, a very powerful, very respected country with a great leader, the UAE, is coming to the White House and we're going to sign an agreement that hasn't been signed in many decades. It's peace and its recognition of Israel and all of the things, nobody thought it could be done. It's an amazing thing. I don't say this out of ego, but I was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. Now, I have to tell you, that's sort of a big thing and the networks and most of the news didn't cover it. Could you imagine? When Obama came to office, they said, "We're going to give him the Nobel Peace Prize." He actually said, "What did I do? I didn't do anything." He didn't do anything for eight years, frankly. But he said, "What did I do?" They gave it to them in a matter of weeks, right? Weeks. With us, we've done so much. We have done so much on so many different fronts. Remember North Korea? Remember? They were going to be at war with North Korea. Where's the war? Where's the war? Where's the war? And we have a good relationship with Kim Jong-un. Who knows what happens? All I know is, we're not in war and that's okay. They said, "But he gave away so much." I said, "I gave away nothing." "No, he gave away so much." When I said, "What did they give away?" You know what they said? "Uh, we don't know." I said, "Here's what I gave away, I gave away nothing." They said, "Oh, but you agreed to meet." Oh, I see. I agreed to meet. So now they're saying, "I agreed to meet, it was such a big deal." Instead of being in a war, I think agreeing to meet is okay, right? And we did. He's a different kind of a guy and he's a smart guy, a very smart guy. We get along. Getting along with foreign powers is not a bad thing. We're trying to teach that to the media and these idiots that ran our government for so many years. These fools. These fools. You know, you got nuclear weapons, you got big armies, big navies, "He gets along with Putin. That's a terrible thing." No, it's a good thing. If I get along, that's good. He likes me. I like him. Not so bad. "He gets along with Kim Jong-un." … Not so bad. He gets along with Kim Jong-Un. That's a terrible thing. No, it's a good thing. I'm trying to convince him. It's okay. It's okay not to go to war. It's really okay. He gets along with President Xi, he gets along with Prime Minister Abe. He gets along with a lot of people, and it's okay. That's a good thing. It's really hard. These stupid people that have been running this operation for 30, 40 years, and they come out against me, and all they did was stick us in these endless wars. We're fighting for sand and blood. Sand and blood. Syria, what do you get out of it? You get sand, you get blood, you get injuries, you get death. These people don't know what the hell they're doing and it's one of the reasons I got elected, I can tell you that. We don't like his foreign policy. And this is said by one of the guy's that got us into the war in Iraq, got us into the Middle East. So, it's … We're doing a great job. We're doing a great job for you. We're doing a great job for Michigan. Just to finish in the Middle East, we killed the founder and leader of Isis, Al-Baghdadi. And by the way, we're pulling back and we're doing everything so beautifully. If we do get into war, we win the war. We don't fight for nothing. We fought for nothing. We don't ever want to have war but if there is a war, nobody's going to even come close to being able to beat us. And we won't be depleted from fighting in all these ridiculous locations all over the globe. You people know that a lot better than the idiots in Washington that has represented us for 35 years. We took out the world's number one terrorist and the mass murderer of American troops, Qasem Soleimani is dead. We kept America out of new wars and we're bringing our troops back home, and they're coming home very rapidly. You see that. Sleepy Joe Biden voted for the Iraq War. He supported the Defense Sequester that gutted our military, destroyed our military, set us back so many years. I got rid of it immediately. He opposed the mission to take out Osama Bin Laden. He was against it. Everything he did, he was wrong on as said by Gates, you know? Secretary of Defense, Secretary of everything. He was sort of like … He had more jobs than any human being I've ever seen. But he said, "Everything, everything that Biden was for was wrong." He opposed killing Soleimani. He oversaw the rise of Isis. He was unable to do anything with Isis. as he came to the White House two weeks ago. And we cheered as we looked at all of the success that we've had but he really oversaw the rise of China as a positive development. Remember, he said, "No, it's a positive development for America and for the world." He's been in Washington for 47 years now. He's all of a sudden going to change? He's going to change? He's not going to change. Don't forget, he was in Washington in his primetime, which was never considered great, and now it's no longer primetime. When I banned travel from China, Biden called it hysterical and xenophobic. If we had listened to Joe, hundreds of thousands more Americans would have died from the China plague. Biden was willing to sacrifice American lives on the altar of open borders. And now Joe Biden is once again hurting innocent people with his dangerous anti-vaccine conspiracy theories, putting millions of lives around the world at risk. And the only reason he's doing that is he knows we're right next to having a vaccine. So, he wants to belittle the vaccine because he doesn't want us to get credit plant, who converted their factory to produce tens of thousands of ventilators, after we invoked the Defense Production Act, and they've done a fantastic job. Not a single American who has needed a ventilator has been denied a ventilator any time in our whole country. They needed a ventilator, we had nothing. We were left, bare cupboards. I always say the cupboards were bare. We're delivering lifesaving therapies, and have achieved among the lowest case fatality rates anywhere of any country in the world. Europe's excess mortality rate is 24% higher than the rate in the United States. You don't hear that from the fake news. Hey, America will prevail over the China virus, as Franklin Delano Roosevelt said, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself." That's it. We're doing very well. As the British government advised the British people in the face of World War II, "Keep calm and carry on." That's what I did. This whack job that wrote the book, he said, "Well, Trump knew a little bit." They wanted me to come out and scream, "People are dying, we're dying." No, no, we did it just the right way. We have to be calm. We don't want to be crazed lunatics. We have to lead. When Hitler was bombing, I don't know if you know this, when Hitler was bombing London, Churchill, great leader, would oftentimes go to a roof in London and speak, and he always spoke with calmness. He said, "We have to show calmness." No, we did it the right way and we've done a job like nobody. All of those great generals, all of those great admirals, our great vice president, Mike Pence, they did a fantastic job. Our doctors, and they don't get any credit because they want to discredit us as much as possible because they want it to carry over to November 3rd, but we've done a fantastic job. I think we've probably done the best job of any country, certainly of any major country anywhere in the world on the pandemic. Through our historic relief programs, we've saved more than 1.6 million Michigan jobs, and over 128,000 Michigan businesses. Michigan has already gained and regained more than half of the jobs that it lost, and if your state was ever allowed to safely reopen by your governor who doesn't have a clue. She's like Joe. You would have regained far more than that. Open up your state, Madam Governor, open up your state. Let's go. Just like crazy Nancy Pelosi, your governor is a liberal hypocrite who lives by a different set of rules. Her husband was caught trying to put his boat in the water on Memorial Day weekend while she was ordering the people of Michigan to stay in their homes, and forcing businesses into bankruptcy left and right. The Biden agenda would collapse our economy and destroy this great opportunity that we're having right now. He would impose job destroying regulations that would demolish the auto industry. You know, on regulations, it took, in many cases, 18, 19, 20 years to get a roadway or a highway approved. We have it down now to two years. We're trying to get it down to one year, and it may get disapproved for environmental or safety reasons, but we're going to know about it very fast. No more 20 year approvals or disapprovals. He wants to force you to provide free government healthcare to illegal aliens. He will destroy your social security. He will destroy your protections for pre-existing conditions, and we will save social security. Remember they said last time? "Oh, Trump is going to destroy social security." Well, it's now four years, we haven't touched it. We've protected it, and that's going to remain that way. Biden opposes school choice and has stated that if he's elected, charter schools, so important, are gone. In a second term, I will provide school choice to every parent in America. A vote for republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans, instead of letting Washington change us, despite all that we have been through, we are changing Washington. We will make our medical supplies right here in the United States, and right here in Michigan. We will enact fair trade deals that create American jobs and grow American wages. We will rapidly return to full employment, soaring incomes and record prosperity, and that's already happening. We will hire more police, increase penalties for assaults on law enforcement, surge federal prosecutors into high crime communities, and we will ban sanctuary cities. We will appoint prosecutors, judges and justices who believe in enforcing the law, not their own political agenda. We will ensure equal justice for citizens of every race, color, religion and creed. We will defend the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We will uphold religious liberty, free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. And you're lucky I'm here because you're Second Amendment would be gone if I wasn't. And they didn't touch it. We will strike down terrorists who threaten our citizens, and we will keep out people, keep them out of these horrible, horrible situations where they hurt our country, they hurt the people of our country, and we're also going to be staying out of the endless ridiculous foreign wars in countries that you've never even heard of. We will build the most powerful missile and cyber defense. We've already got it, pretty much. And we will maintain peace through strength. We will end surprise medical billing, require the biggest thing that nobody even knows about and it's all signed and it goes into effect on January 1st. You better make sure I win. Can you imagine? This is going to be the biggest thing and nobody understands what it is. You'll figure it out. Price transparency. Did they fight me on that one. January 1st. And further reduce health insurance premiums and the cost of prescription drugs at a level like you've never seen before. I've already signed it. Favored Nations. The drug companies are not happy, I will tell you. Just, all you have to do is take a look at all the ads they're running against me. Favored Nations, where we pay whatever the lowest is in the world, we pay that number. We will protect Medicare and social security, and we will always protect our patients. We will always our people. We will your pre-existing conditions, as I said. America will land the first woman on the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars. We will restore patriotic education, you know what I mean by that, and we will teach our children to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the timeless words of our national motto, In God We Trust. And I don't know if you saw it, but during the Democrat National Convention and Caucus, they took twice, I thought I was sort of, maybe they made a mistake, you saw that, they took the word God out of the Pledge of Allegiance twice. And then they said, "Oh, well maybe it was a mistake." It wasn't a mistake. That's where they're coming from. Don't be foolish. That's where they're coming from and there's nothing that Sleepy Joe Biden can do about it. For years, you had a president who apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and standing up for Michigan. So, get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and your coworkers, and get out and vote. So important. From Grand Rapids to Saginaw, from Kalamazoo to Mackinac, and from Flint to right here in Freeland, we stand on the shoulders of generations of Michigan patriots who gave their blood, sweat and tears for this beloved nation. This is the state where Henry Ford invented the assembly line. It's the place where General Motors, Chrysler and Kellogg revolutionized entire industries. Michigan, well, you know this one, right? Michigan gave us Motown, right? That's right. That's right, Motown. We love Motown. Michigan gave us Motown, gave us Motown, gave us the Mustang and the unrivaled might of the American Midwest. This is the state where tough, strong and determined workers made America into the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of the world, and we are making it greater and greater every single day. Proud citizens like you helped build this country, and together, we will be taking back our country, we'll be taking it back from people that don't love our country and that take back is almost complete. We have to win on November 3rd. We're returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting. And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, we are going to keep on winning. Vote for John James. John James. We need John James. We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God, and together, with the incredible people of Michigan, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, Michigan. We love you, Michigan. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you and Vice President Mike Pence, thank you very much. Incredible. And, hello to Fayetteville. Hello, Fayetteville. It's great to be here in North Carolina's ninth congressional district with the hardworking patriots who believe in faith, family, God and country. Thank you. Thank you. Tomorrow you'll head to the polls to elect a congressman who always puts America first, Dan Bishop. I've just come from a meeting with North Carolina officials representing communities hit by Hurricane Dorian and I expressed the unwavering solidarity of the American people, we are behind you 100%. 100%. The prayers of our entire nation are with the citizens of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and everyone else that was in the storms path, and I will say I was called by the government of The Bahamas and we're helping with The Bahamas. They were hit so hard. They were hit so hard. Who would believe it? We pledged the full support of the federal government through every step of the rebuilding process. And I will say, North Carolina in our country probably got hit the hardest. That was a little bit of a surprise, but I know one thing about North Carolina. You can take it and you'll build it quickly and you'll build it beautifully. And, you'll be back sooner then anybody ever thought and it'll be better then ever. Right? No doubt about it. I also want to give a special recognition to the many non-governmental organizations doing so much to help people recover from Dorian, in particular, Franklin Graham. He's a wonderful guy. He's got an organization, Samaritan's Purse, based right here in North Carolina and the work that Franklin and his family and all of those that are with Franklin Graham we want to thank them. Special, great people. Great People. Thank you Franklin. Thank you. Incredible job. He does such a great job. All over, whenever there's a problem you see Samaritan's Purse and Franklin and his people. We love the people of this state and we will never ever leave your side. North Carolina will truly recover so fast. I know you people so well. Let's not even talk about it. Let's not even talk about it. We're here tonight to discuss the extraordinary progress we're making as a nation and how to ensure this amazing resurgence keeps on going and going strong. In just over two years, we've taken this big beautiful ship and it's being turned around very quickly. Nobody thought this would happen. You know we won the greatest election, certainly one of them, but maybe the greatest, but we won… let's say one of the greatest, this way I won't be criticized. They'll say, "You know, George Washington had a great election too." The fake news right. The fake news. But, we won one of the greatest elections in history and because of that, and you would be in big trouble if we didn't, I can tell you that. You'd be… Instead of going up we were heading in the wrong direction. We have the number one economy anywhere in the world. And every time I meet a foreign leader, almost every time, they say, "Congratulations on what you've done with the economy." I said, "I didn't do it. I just set a certain path. The people of the United States did it." Number one anywhere in the world. And they tried to do the recession thing. You know, they tried the Russia thing. That didn't work. They tried many other things. I always say, "The media and their partner, the Democrats." I wouldn't mind fighting the Democrats, but we really have to look at it as a two-some. It's the media and the Democrats. It's one and the same. We're rebuilding our military, defending our sovereignty and reclaiming our dignity as a nation. America is winning again and America is respected again. They respect America. By the way, I have about 10 women in the front row and you come from North Carolina and they travel all over the place. Hold up your hands. These are great women. I see them so much, and I must say they have other things to do. They look rich as hell to me, I don't know. How many is this? How many rallies have you come too? They can't count. They said all of them except for two. That's a lot of rallies and it all emanates from this area. That's so great. Well, at least you won't have to travel so far for this one, right? Thank you very much for being here. We really appreciate it. Well, we appreciate it. We appreciate it. Thank you. Really incredible people. But you know, we've created six million new jobs since election day and I couldn't say that in my initial rallies because nobody would have believed it. Six million new jobs. More Americans are working today than ever before in the history of our country. Almost 160 million Americans, nobody would have thought that was possible. We wouldn't have been able to say it actually. We've now had 13 straight months of wage gains of at least 3%, so the people that work so hard… You remember I used to say during the rallies before we won, people worked two jobs, three jobs and they made less money then they made 21 years before and now wages are going up, the economy is doing great and jobs have never been better. So importantly, more than 70 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Nearly 600,000 Americans entered the labor force last month alone. Think of that. And the unemployment rate for African-Americans just reached another brand new, yesterday, all time low in the history of our country. How do you lose that debate? Remember I used to say, "Why do you have to lose?" Well, now you have the best unemployment numbers, employment and unemployment numbers, that you've ever had as African-Americans, as Asian-Americans, as Hispanic-Americans. The best numbers we've ever had, and by the way, African-American youth unemployment has also reached the lowest level ever recorded in history. And, the labor force participation rate for women is at the highest level now in 15 years, and soon will be 35 years, and soon, I promise, will probably end up being better than ever. I can tell you the unemployment numbers for women are the best they've been now in 72 years. So, I always say kiddingly, "I'm sorry I didn't make it historic," but you know what? It's going to be historic very soon. It'll be historic very soon. And, here in North Carolina, over 230,000 more people now have jobs and small business formation has skyrocketed by more than 25%. Amazing. But, the radical democrats want to dismantle, demolish, and destroy everything that you've gained, and they will do it, and it won't take that long. And, that's why we need Dan Bishop and Greg Murphy. We need them. We need them going down. We need them going down to congress and helping. But, they can do it. It's also why we need four more years. It has to… See, it's like a plant. We've changed things, right? Keep America Great. We've changed things, but it's gotta grow. It's gotta develop those roots. And, once it does, it's going to be very hard for them to destroy what we've done. Very hard. And, that's really why I consider this election… Look, we had a very, very special day in 2016. It was a very special day. Very special day. It was an incredible day, an incredible month, an incredible year, and I don't know that you can ever compare anything to it. But, I can say this, 2020 is essentially just as important, because they'll try and take it away. Whether it has to do with religion. Our evangelicals are here tonight, and they're all over the place. And, what we've done for them, and for religion, is so important. You know, the other side, I don't think they're big believers… They're not big believers in religion. That I can tell you. You listen to some of them. They're trying, and they're trying put out little statements. They're not working too well. Little statements that are a little bit, sort of, not too good, huh? What is the word we want to use? Yeah, a little… Nah. Nah. They're pushing a little hard, and it's not working. To stop the far left, you must vote in tomorrow's special election. So important. Or, get your votes in early. I think a lot of… Who voted early for Dan Bishop? Good. Well, that's good, but the big thing is tomorrow. Tomorrow is the election, and you'll get out. To protect your family, you must defeat open borders. And, you have Democrat named Dan McCready, and he wants open borders. He wants sanctuary cities. He's not going to protect your Second Amendment. He's doing nothing on your Sec… You know, North Carolina's a very big Second Amendment state. And, Dan Bishop, Greg Murphy, these guys, they're going to protect your Second Amendment. But, one of the biggest issues in this election is, in fact, sanctuary cities. McCready supports sanctuary city policies that force prisons and jails to release criminal aliens directly into your neighborhoods. Get out. Go ahead. Go into the neighborhood. Go into… What's your neighborhood. Where do you… What? Rutherford County! Okay. So, how do you feel about having them released, hardened, horrible criminals into Rutherford County? I don't think so. But, your whole state… Honestly… Can I be honest? It's crazy what's happening. This whole thing with sanctuary cities, and you go to California, which is so many sanctuary cities, they don't know what's happening out there. You have people that want to get ride of those sanctuary cities, they just aren't able to do it with the people that get elected. A lot of illegal voting going on out there, by the way, a lot of illegal voting. In August, McCready said it was "the right call to set illegal alien criminals loose in the great state…" I'm using the words great state. He doesn't. "… Of North Carolina." With the support and encouragement of McCready, sanctuary jurisdictions in North Carolina have released thousands of dangerous criminal aliens into your communities, and you see it. You see it. The charges against these freed criminals includes sexual assault, robbery, drug crimes, kidnapping, and homicide. Murder. Why would you do it? Why would you do it? What is it? Explain it. Just recently, Mecklenburg County set free an illegal alien charged with first-degree rape and crimes against a child. Support for sanctuary cities is disloyalty to American citizens, and McCready wants sanctuary cities with all of their protections for people that are serious criminals. Tomorrow is your chance to send a clear message to the America-hating left, and it's gotta be. And, by the way, we're building that wall, and it's going up very big. Very big. And, you think it's easy to get money when you have the entire Democrat party… And, they control the House, and we want to change that. We want to flip the house. We'll get so much. It'll be amazing what we can do for our country. We don't want dangerous criminal aliens roaming free in North Carolina. We want to take care of it. This state should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens. Our great Republican candidate, Dan Bishop, will fight with everything he has to stop sanctuary cities and defend the people of this great state. Dan, come on up. Dan Bishop, everyone. Get out and vote. Come on up, Dan. We need a doctor. A doctor in the house, please. A doctor, please. Doctor in the house. Thank you. Take your time, please. Take your time. We've got plenty of time. Thank you. Take your time. Thank you, Doctor. Take your time. People have been standing outside for two days to get in, so this happens. Thank you. Thank you, Doctor. Doing better? Good. That's good. That's good. That's great. That's really great. Thank you! Thank you, sir. Thank you. That's really great. Thank you very much. I guess Dan's speech wasn't so good. What do you think? That's great. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you, Doctor. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, law enforcement. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Dan. That was a good job. That was a good job. He means it, too. He's great. Go out and vote tomorrow for Dan Bishop, please. So, we've had great support over the last six months in particular from a man who happens to be your senator right now, and we need him to keep going, because he has been fantastic. And, I believe he's here tonight. I just came in. The weather wasn't so great to be traveling today, and they said, "Maybe we could skip North Carolina today, sir." So, I said, "No, thank you." I said, "No, thank you." Can you imagine? And, by the way, I have to say, we have a big crowd in here, right? You haven't seen outside. Thousands and thousands of people who couldn't get in. And, when people wait two or three days to come in and especially these first rows, I just want to tell you we really thank you. Incredible. But, Thom Tillis has really worked with us over the last period of time. He's recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to sue sanctuary cities. That's a big deal. And hold them accountable for the lives that they've shattered. But, to pass the bill, we need more Republicans. Tomorrow there is another crucial special election, and we have a fantastic guy running in that one, too, Republican Greg Murphy. It looks like he's in good shape, but you've got to get it out. So, I want to introduce Thom Tillis, and I want to introduce Greg Murphy. I want to thank you both. Thank you. Thank you, Thom, and thank you, Greg. So, Greg Murphy is looking to, like Dan, cut your taxes, defend your Second Amendment, support our policies, really, really support our military and our veterans. We have rebuilt our military. Greg Murphy, come on up for a second here. Greg Murphy. Come up. Come up, Greg. Come on up, Greg. Come on up, Greg. Just for a second. Then, we'll get back to business. We've got to do this, and I don't know. He's been a great champ Thank you, Greg. Come. Please. Good luck tomorrow, Greg. Get out there and vote for those two guys. They're terrific. We're thrilled to be joined tonight by many more terrific Republican leaders. A man who's really been stepping up to the front. He defended Justice Kavanaugh when he was treated so badly. I've never seen anything like the treatment that Justice Kavanaugh received. And, everybody respects him, and everybody likes him. And, I like him, and we used to fight like hell, right? But, we don't fight anymore. We like each other a lot, and he's a special man. And, he's become a special friend. Senator Lindsay Graham. Another man who is a fighter… I guess we're all fighters. You have to be a fighter or you're not going to be here very long. I can tell you that. We've got to fight them more than anybody else. But, a man who's done an incredible job in Washington, took over a rough situation, and he's become a real leader, and that's Republican Leader, Kevin McCarthy. Kevin. Kevin's working so hard for so many different people. He wants to see Dan and Greg win so badly. Thank you for being here. Appreciate it, Leader. Representative David Rouzer. David, thank you. David Rouzer. He's done a fantastic job. Our lieutenant governor who is going to be, I think, a highly competitive candidate for a very important race, Dan Forest. Thank you, Dan. Thank you very much, Dan. We also have North Carolina Republican Party Chair, Michael Whatley. What a job you've done. And, we have a man from North Carolina who loves this state. He fights so hard. He doesn't know what it is not to fight. You know who I'm talking about? They got it, Mark. You're all screaming, "Mark Meadows." That's right. He's great. So many. Jim Jordan, Andy Biggs, Gaetz, and… I just got so… By the way, Devin Nunez. Devin Nunez. How about Devin? He was out there when it wasn't in vogue to be saying that Comey was a stone cold liar and leaker. But, he knew it all the time, Devin Nunez. But, Mark Meadows is pretty incredible, and do they love… … but Mark Meadows has been incredible, and do they love him in your state. Do they love Mark Meadows. Thank you Mark. Also a friend of mine who's been with us from the beginning, he's not a politician but he might as well be one. He loves us. He loves this party and he loves your state, lives here, Louis DeJoy. One of the most successful people. Thank you, Louis and your wife is… doing a great job Louis. And a very special thanks to my son, Don Junior and Kimberly. Great job. Did Don Junior give a good speech? I heard that. They all said, "He was on fire." Well, he's fighting. He loves this country. My son loves this country. My family loves this country, and two people, from your state, that the first lady, before she was first lady, she said, "You know, there are two people that are unbelievable. You've got to watch them." I said, "I'm not interested. I'm too busy." "No, no, no. You have to watch them. They're so great, they're so smart. They love the country, they love you." Diamond and Silk. They are incredible. Incredible people. Thank you very much. Thank you, what a job, and they're doing very well I have to tell you that. Our shared Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American. And by the way, so is Doug Collins, and so John Ratcliffe. Thank you fellows. Thank you. Two incredible fighters also. For decades our leaders put global interest and special interest ahead of your interest. You know that better than anybody, and this state knows it better than anybody. They traded away your factories, sold your future, squandered your tax dollars, sacrificed your security, and bogged us down in one foreign debacle after another. But all of that is changed. We're respected again. They're all saying, "Oh, gee. I hope he doesn't do this or that." They've taken advantage of us for years, and I have to say sadly, in many cases it's our allies that took the greatest advantage of this country. But now you finally have a president who understands that I'm not supposed to be the president of the world, I'm supposed to be the President of the United States of America. To bring back our jobs for other countries, we passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We've cut a record number of job killing regulations. No president, no longer how long they serve, has gotten anywhere even close to what we've done with regulations, and that's one of the reasons our economy is so good. And we have tremendous potential upward, and China wants to talk. They want to talk. China's lost three million jobs, thousands of companies are leaving China, the supply chain is crumbling because they can't pay the tariffs, and our country has taken over things that you would've never thought. As an example, hundreds of billions of dollars have been and are coming into our country in the form of tariffs, and China is eating the cost, which the fake news doesn't want to tell you. And out of the tens of billions of dollars that we've taken in, because of the fact that our great American patriot farmers have been targeted by China, they've been targeted, because they know the farmer is like Trump. I love the farmers. So they targeted the farmers, and I said to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture, "Sonny, how much was it, last year and the year before? Tell me." It was $12 billion and it was $16 billion, and out of the tariffs that we've taken in, we gave to our farmers for distribution, hopefully very good distribution, hopefully very even distribution, we've given them $28 billion so that they're whole. So that they're whole. Nobody would ever do that. Nobody would ever do that, I can tell you that right now, and our farmers know we have to fight. I see it all the time, where some of the networks that are crazy, they have a group of farmers, in some cases they have groups of women, they say, "What do you think of President Trump?" "We like him a lot. We're with him all the way." And they want to turn off the cameras. They go crazy, but with the farmers you know that. You ever see that? The 10 women. "What do you think of President Trump?" "We love him!" Boy would I like to put you on television, I'll tell you right now, and they can't turn off those cameras fast enough, but they say to the farmers, "You voted for President Trump, are you happy?" And ever one of them said, "He did things that no ones ever done before." Who would think of getting 12 billion plus 16 million, $28 billion, because they've been targeted. That's the amount I asked Sonny, I said Sonny, "What's the amount they've took our of our farmers?" "It was 16 billion and the year before 12." And said Sonny, "We got to make that up," and we made that up. Who would do that? Nobody would do that. First of all, nobody else ever had tens of billions of dollars pouring in from China because it's always been the other way around. China has taken advantage of our country for decades, decades. And I guarantee you one thing, none of these Democrats, whether it's Pocahontas or Sleepy Joe, none of them would be able to do a thing about it, and nobody would ever think of helping the farmers who have been targeted by China. China made $500 billion over the last number of years, on a yearly basis, they steal our intellectual property. So many other things. So now it's just different, and now it's working the other way, and tariffs are a beautiful thing when you know how to use them, they're a beautiful thing. And I want China to do well, and I hope they do well, but they've had now the worst year in 57 years. I wonder why? I wonder why? And hopefully it'll all work out. We'll see. We're going to be talking next week. We're talking now. They're going to be coming to the United States in two or three weeks, and we'll see what happens, but unless we're going to make a good deal or a fair deal for our country, let's face it, we can not go back to a situation. We're giving hundreds of billions of dollars to China becomes standard fare. Not going to happen, we can't do it, and we have many other countries also, but we'll worry about them a little bit later. Plenty of others, they've taken advantage of our country like you wouldn't believe, and I've been saying this for many years. I was saying this when I was a private citizen. They take our jobs, they make our product, they sell the product into our country with no tax, no nothing. So we end up with closed factories, no jobs, no taxes, no nothing, and these other countries gain. As an example, Mexico, I must say they've really helped us at the border. The Democrats will not doing anything about these horrible open loopholes, which would be so good. So we're doing it a different way, and Mexico is now patrolling with 27,000 troops. They've never had two troops steward our border, and you saw the numbers today were down approximately 57%. But our country could fix it so easy if the Democrats would sit with me for 15 minutes, but they don't want to do that because they want to have open borders. They want to have drugs pouring into our country. You have to have a wall and you have to stop it, and when you look at what's happening with human trafficking, and it's mostly women, they traffic in women and they pour through our borders. Well, every inch of wall that we put up is vital and we're putting up miles and miles, and we intend by next year, at the end of the year, to have anywhere between 400 and 500 miles of wall built, and this is serious wall. This is the real deal. Serious wall. And I want to thank our new Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper, for the job he's done and he views it really as a national security threat, and you have to. What can be much more threatening that people that want to pour across our borders, and we have the worst walls, we have the weakest walls in the history of any country? You can't do anything to stop them. You have program, catch and release. You catch them and then you have to release them, and they're suppose to come back to court in the next three, four, fix, six years, and nobody shows up, and Democrats don't want to fix it. So we're stopping them, so we don't even have to worry about court. We ended the last administrations cruel war on American energy. The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. And for all of these crazy people, but they're not so crazy, they know what they're doing, that talk about Russia, Russia, Russia. Russia's not too happy about that. Their primary source of income is oil and gas, and now we're bigger than Russia, bigger than Saudi Arabia. We're bigger than everybody, and we're doing great. So they're not exactly happy. The Russian Hoax, was a pure hoax, you saw that with Comey the other day. Yet every leading Democrat running for president pledges to ban the energy that drives our economy, and wage an under… If you look at what's going on your way of life is under assault by these people. I mean, I go out and sometimes I'll get these huge audiences, and I wish we could've gotten a large arena than this. We tried. I was even willing to stand out in the rain and get my hair soaking wet, but they said it was a little bit out of your district, and I said, "I don't know if it looks good being out of your district." But I was willing to do it, I would've taken it. I would have been very proud to have done it. It would've shown it's my real hair at least. It wouldn't be pretty, but it's my hair. May not be great, but I will say it's better than most of my friends who are the same age. A lot better. A lot! But we had a different location, as you all know, and we said, "Let's do this one. It's bigger." And we put screens outside for all of the people. We have screens and loud speakers and everything. It's really amazing what's going on out there, but after years of building up there countries, we are finally building up our country, that's the bottom line. The last administration, with Biden and Obama at the helm, they tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals that ever been negotiated, the Transpacific Partnership. You could've kissed many of your industries goodbye. TPP would've gutted the American auto industry. It would've been even worse than NAFTA, and we know how bad NAFTA was. All you have to do, is even to this day, look around at all those empty plants where people moved down and companies moved down to Mexico. Not under the USMCA. We got to get Nancy Pelosi to put it in for a vote, make it bipartisan. She'll have tremendous Democrat support. The farmers want it, the unions want it, the manufacturers want it, and by the way, 600,000 manufacturing jobs in this country, remember? You would need a magic wand. You can't do that anymore. Well, we did it, but we've got to get USMCA put up for a vote by the Democrats. But in my first week in office I proudly withdrew from that job destroying TPP catastrophe, and we're replacing one of the worst trade deals ever made by any country. You can go back as far as you want, NAFTA, the disaster of NAFTA. So whatever you do, start talking to your people, we need a vote on the USMCA. That's United States, Mexico, and Canada, and they've already voted. They want it and we want it, and it's great for the farmers. It's great for everybody. We're also aggressively combating a problem that you have in North Carolina, problem that we have in almost all states, the opioid epidemic. Last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths in nearly 31 years. At the center of the American drug crisis is the border crisis. Criminal cartel smuggle vast quantities of lethal narcotics across our souther border, including heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl. 100,000 people a year die from what comes across our souther border, and we can get the Democrats to help us in sealing it even tighter. We got to get them. We got to get them. We got to get them. So if you want to stop the drug smugglers, the human traffickers, the viscous MS13 gang members, and by the way thank you to ICE. These people go into those nests, we call them nets. These are vicious, vicious people. We got into the nests with our ICE people, and for them it's another day at the office. There aren't too many people in this room that want to do it for a living. Let me see. That guy would. Maybe him, maybe her, right? Maybe her. But it's a rough job and they get so little praise for the job that they do. So dangerous. These are many killers in those gangs, and we're taking them out of our country by the thousands, MS13. And as you know, Democrats even want to give free healthcare to illegal immigrants. As long as I'm your president I will never, ever let Democrats take away your healthcare, and give it away free to people that have entered our country illegally. We can't do that. It's a tremendous incentive to come in. Democrats also want to bring in unlimited numbers of foreign refugees from overseas, all at the expense of supporting their own communities. Republicans, no matter what you do, where you are, we want people to obey our laws. You want people that are going to help our country. The Democrat party has never been farther outside of the mainstream. Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of healthcare that would raid Medicare, force private doctors out of medicine, and lead to the rationing of life saving treatments. And they want to take away your private healthcare, your private insurance. 180 million people will lose with what they want to do. It's a disaster. It's like, did you ever really feel where you don't even have to treat people nicely? You don't have any choice, you have to vote for me. I can leave right now. I can say, "North Carolina, I've had it with you. I'm leaving right now." And you know what? You got to go out and vote. What are you going to do? Put one of these crazy people running our country again? But it's never been so far left. I told a story the other day about a business man I saw, one of the biggest in the country. You probably know his name. He's hated me for 20 years, and I've hated him also. Okay? Now they're going to go out tomorrow, "Breaking news, Donald Trump hates people." You're sort of right about that. I never liked this guy, and I see him in the White House, and I say, "What are you doing here?" And he goes, "Mr. President." See now he calls me Mr. President. He used to call me something else. "Mr. President, I'm fighting for your victory." I said, "You got to be kidding." He goes, "Honestly, you're doing a great job, but also if this radical left gets in they're going to take away everything, and they're going to destroy our country." And for the first time I like this guy. My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you. Remember President Obama? 28 times, remember 28 times, they counted them and there's much more than that I would imagine, that you can choose your plan, you can choose your doctor. It didn't work out that way, did it? Obamacare, and we're keeping Obamacare alive. We got rid of the individual mandate, the worst part of Obamacare. We're keeping it and running it as well as it can, but the premiums are too high. The deductibles are through the roof. It's ridiculous, and we're coming up with Lindsey Graham and all of the folks, we're coming up with a great healthcare plan that if we take back to the house. That's why Dan and Greg, if we take back the House, if we keep the Senate, and maybe even increase it a little bit, wouldn't be bad, and on the assumption we keep the presidency, you're going to have great healthcare. Thank you. We almost had it. We had a man campaigning for eight years to knock out Obamacare, and when he voted it didn't work out that way, did it? We had it, and we would have had it, but we're going to end up actually with a better plan. Sometimes through adversity things work out better. We're going to end up with a better plan, you watch. We'll always protect patients with pre-existing conditions also. Always, yep, my word. Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 51 years. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion. Ripping babies straight from the mother's womb, right up to the moment of birth, and if you look at the governor of Virginia, he was even talking about essentially you would say an execution. He was talking after the baby is born, the doctor will talk to the mother and they'll make the decision as to whether or not that baby lives. This is a radical Democrat idea. That's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, and socialism. They're socialists. The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream. Every day they're making good on the motto, "Promise made, promises kept." In fact, we are keeping even more promises by far than we made, or than we promised. So many more. So many more. So many more. You know what we did with respect to people that are very sick or terminally ill, right? Right to try it's called. I love that name. Right to try. We have some of the greatest doctors in the world, labs in the world, hospitals in the world, and we have incredible medicine that's prohibited from being used until it gets approval, and sometimes that approval can take many years. And I said, "Wait a minute, if a person is sick… " And they've been trying to get this for 45 years. I said, "If a person is sick, and maybe terminally ill, why aren't we letting them try this new technology?" And so many things are happening, and we did Right to Try. And it wasn't easy, but I was helped by Lindsey and a lot of great people. A lot of great people. All of them helped. Mark helped so much. All of them help. Rick. We have had a tremendous success. We had so many people wanting to help, but it was complicated believe it not because the country didn't want the liability. I said, "You know what you do? You draw up an agreement taking away liability." They said, "That's a good idea." The insurance companies and the drug companies were very unsure. This has been going on for many years. I got it done. The results have been unbelievable. Right to Try. Things that we've never even talked about we're getting done. Maybe one of the biggest things is within about a month, we'll have close to 180 federal judges, including the public division judges. Including two great new Supreme Court Justices. Justice Neil Gorsuch, and Justice Brett Cavanaugh, who they put through hell. We passed something that they've wanted to do for half a century. We passed VA Choice. So when your great and honored veterans are waiting in line for three weeks, four weeks, five days, 10 days, two months, they go to a private doctor, we pay for the bill, and they get themselves taken care of, instead of dying, which was happening. And we also passed VA Accountability on behalf of our great veterans. That means when they treat our veterans, and they wouldn't have done it in primetime I can tell you, but when they treat our sick and trouble veterans badly we can say, "You're fired. Get the heck out." It's called VA Accountability. That's another one we've been trying, and in all fairness the unions made it very tough. Civil service made it almost impossible. Everyone said, "You're never going to get it done." We got it done. We want to thank the Republican Senate. I want to thank some incredible people in the House of Representatives, and Kevin I want to thank you… … people in the House of Representatives. And Kevin, I want to thank you because that was a great job you did on that one. That was a great job, thank you, Kevin McCarthy. We've received record funding for the US military, 700 billion last year, 716 billion dollars this year, 738 billion dollars … And you know, know I'm a big believer in budgets but we have no choice. We had to rebuild our military with all that's going on today with China, with Russia, with radical Islam, with everything that's happening, we had to do something. And you know, budgets are fine, I love budgets and we will get to that, don't worry about it. But we had to rebuild, our military was totally depleted, it was totally depleted. We have beautiful new F-35's, F-18's, new ships, new missiles, new rockets, we have new everything. I came back with Admiral Brown, the United States Coast Guard and some of the other folks, and they were saying that the new Coast Guard cutters … How good a job has the Coast Guard done during these hurricanes? And I said, "Admiral, how good are the new Coast Guard cutters?" He said, "They're the finest in the world, sir." And they had old broken equipment that they had to keep going on a shoestring. They have brand new Coast Guard cutters. We had to do it, we had to do it. There's always time for the other but we had to do it. We've rebuilt our military, we've taken care of the great people that work in our military. We gave them a raise, a beautiful raise they were so entitled to. And I also got other NATO members to pay an additional 100 billion dollars over the last year and a half that they weren't paying, they were delinquent. We're supposed to protect them and they don't pay, I say you can't do that. You can't do that, you got to pay, NATO. Now we're finally making immensely wealthy countries pay the cost of their defense, we're negotiating with a lot of them. Think of it, we have these immensely wealthy countries and they're paying for a fraction of our cost to defend them. How did that happen? And do you know what the biggest excuse is when I go to them and I'll say, "King, you got to pay," or, "Mr. Prime minister, you got to pay," or, "Mr. President, you've got to pay," you know? It's costing us billions of dollars to protect these wealthy. You know what their biggest thing is? Because I can't understand how we did this for so many years, decades, decades … "You have been defending all of …" I won't mention names because I don't want to embarrass anybody. I don't want to, forget it, some of the wealthiest countries in the world. And when I say, "King, President, Prime Minister, Queen," no matter what I say, you know what they say? "But nobody's ever asked us to do that before," that's the only excuse. Because I say to them, "Why would we do this? Why are we defending you? You're immensely wealthy, you compete with us on trade." We have lousy trade deals that we are renegotiating many of them and ultimately all of them. "Why are we protecting you, Mr. President?" "Well, I don't know, I don't know." But you know what their answer is? "Because you've always done it." That's not a great answer. So we're taking in billions and billions but I've got 100 billion dollars and the Secretary General of NATO, Stoltenberg, is my biggest fan. He said, "Until President Trump, you had to see the data across the spending was going like this." And ours was going like this, we were defending many countries that treat us very badly on trade and very unfairly. We were defending them and now it's changing, around 100 billion dollars, they're not happy. And then I read where Obama is more popular in Germany than Trump. He's got to be, I'm making people pay their bills, he's got to be. You know, the day that I'm more popular than him, I'm not doing my job. The big story, they like him more in Europe than they like Trump. I think they should. 100 billion dollars more they're paying. To protect America's security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran Nuclear Deal. We paid them 150 billion dollars for that piece of work. I withdrew it and we put sanctions all over the place and they're a much different country and let's see what happens. But I can tell you they'd like to get back to business because they're not doing very well. When I came into office, Iran was a real terror. 18 sites of confliction, they were behind every one of them in the Middle East. And who knows, could have been elsewhere. And I said we're not going to do it, 150 billion dollars President Obama paid and 1.8 billion in cash. Whoever saw a million dollars piled up as a promotion? In hundred dollar bills, it's a lot. Now take a million dollars and make it 1.8 billion dollars in cash. I'm actually more impressed with that number than 150 billion dollars, you want to know the truth. 1.8 billion dollars in cash and we got taken to the cleaners so I terminated the deal. And I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem which every president said they would do. And I also approved for Israel the Golan Heights and if you really think about it, I said to people, "What's more important, the Golan Heights or the capital of Jerusalem by moving our embassy there?" He said, "Neither, sir. What you've done in Iran is more important than both of them." I said, "You know, I guess you're right when you think about it." So we've done a good job, all of us together, as a movement we've done a great job for Israel. For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for america and we are standing up for the people of North Carolina. You must never forget that the 2020 election is about one thing thing, you. It's true, it's not about me, it's about you. It's about your family, your future and the fate of your country. That's what we did in 2016, they came from the hills and valleys, they came from the cities, they came from all over the place and people were saying, these fakers back there, they were saying, "What the hell is happening?" But I knew it was going to happen because we go out and we see these rallies, the likes of which no one has ever seen before ever, ever, ever in politics, ever in politics. A vote for any Democrat in 2020 and a vote for any Democrat tomorrow in North Carolina is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and a destruction of the American dream. We are entering this campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda and the only positive vision for the people of North Carolina. And I've said it and I say it loudly and proudly, I don't believe there's been any president or any administration that has done more in 2.5 years then we have as a group in America. When you add it all up, nobody's done what we have. Our first task is a giant victory. Tomorrow, right here in the great state of North Carolina with your support, tomorrow we take the first steps to firing Speaker Pelosi and winning back the House in 2020. We need everybody to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and get out and vote for Dan Bishop and get out and vote for Greg Murphy, you got to get out tomorrow and vote. Together we will lift millions more from our horrible, horrible situations that have developed over the years. Look at what's happening to Democrat-run cities, every single one of them. We are going to lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. With your help, we will elect for Republicans to Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration. We will enact great deals that result in more products probably stamped with the four beautiful words made in the USA, made in the USA. You want made in America, I don't care, what do you like better? Made in america or made in the USA? Go ahead. Wait, ready? You want made in America then made in the USA. What do you like better, made in America, made in the USA? Okay, I think we know that answer. So in 2016 we had in my opinion the greatest phrase in the history of politics, make America great again. Now we are within moments hopefully of having, despite what you heard a few weeks ago, where we were heading. And they're going, "Please, please let there be a recession, please." They're willing to give up their results because they think it will help them win the election. They're not going to win the election. Don't forget, we are doing this and still fighting the unfairness of China and other countries on trade. What happens when that gets fixed and other things get fixed? We're setting new records and we're fighting trade deals and we're fighting military deals that are unfair to our country. Think what happens when it all gets fixed, We have ourselves a country that's going to be so strong. But we had a phrase, make what? Make America great again, the best. I think it was maybe the greatest, 2016, but we've done a lot and now they're very close to setting a new … I think it's the 118th time that we will have set a new record with the stock market, right? Many, many times, many, many times. I can't be certain that many but it's a lot, okay? I always have to preface it because there'll be headlines, Trump didn't tell the truth. So I've always got to be extremely cautious. We had the greatest phrase of all time and even the fake news media would agree, make America great again, MAGA country, make America great again. Now we still have a year and a half, little bit less, can you believe it? Can you believe it? I stood in the White House with the first lady that first night and I said, "Wow, look at this. That's the bedroom of Abraham Lincoln," you have to see this. It's so perfectly done, it's so the way it was. We announced it in front of the press and in 2026. And I said, "Well, wait a minute, under the normal rules I will be out in 2024 so we may have to go for an extra term." Oh, they're going crazy. Tomorrow, you will see headlines, Trump wants an extra term, I told you, I told you. He wants an extra term, ladies and gentlemen. We told you, we told you he's a dictator, we told you. No, no, I'm only kidding, I'm only kidding. But we actually have the World Cup, it's the biggest sporting event in the world and we got it. And that's where we're working it also with Mexico and Canada to give them some of the games. We've got a great relationship with the World Cup, it's a big deal. Bob Kraft helped me with the New England Patriots people. Tom Brady had a pretty good game the other night, right? They have a good a coach, whether you like it or not, and I know you, North Carolina. But how good a coach, in all fairness here, is Coach Belichick? How good is he? I know you want to be cool but he's pretty good. We have to appreciate genius, we all like genius. But we are going to achieve new breakthroughs in science, medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending within 10 years the AIDS epidemic in America. That's shocking to hear that but we can do it, we're going to do it, definitely. Incredible, the strides that we have made. We will defeat the Democrats to drive up the cost of houses, cars, healthcare and education by liberating Americans from their analysts' push for a job killing, soul crushing Washington regulations. As an example, we're trying to get the car companies, going to give them a little bit of extra energy and they will be able to build a car that consumers can buy which will be better than the car they make today. And you'll save 3,500 dollars, think of that. It will be safer, it will be better, you can save 3,500 dollars, it will be less costly. And we're going to try to get that done. And then they were forcing you to buy light bulbs that cost a fortune, so I signed something a couple days ago that gives you the right to continue to use the incandescent light bulbs, I don't know about you, much less expensive lights that are beaming down over us. But you know, somebody told me that as you know, they're much more expensive bulbs than for what you save. But they said that if the bulb break, it's considered almost like the waste site. It's very big, the bulbs, the new bulbs, they're very dangerous with all of the gases. And I said, "What's the point?" Well, then he said, "Well, I'm saying if we continue that production, they can buy whatever they want to buy but it can really save a tremendous amount of money and even have a light that's better." And there is a big danger, in fact they have labels, don't break this bulb. What do you do, you're going to throw it away? I promise I won't break it, all the new ones. So you can hopefully buy the new ones but you can buy the old ones too and you can save a lot of money and you could even look better. We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America, we'll be one united nation. We'll support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement, thank you, law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way like you. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust, it'll stay there. We stand on the shoulders of American patriots who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two world wars wars, defeated fascism and communism, put a man on the moon and built the most exceptional country in the history of the world. We are great Americans and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to you. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and I'd like to fight a little less with these people but they just don't stop. They just keep coming at you in waves. They are unfortunately not the best people. And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, we're going to keep on winning. We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before, we may have right now the greatest economy in the history of our nation. And ladies and gentlemen of North Carolina, the best is yet to come. Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again, we will. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, North Carolina. Thank you.Thank you very much. Thank you, Minnesota. This is a great state. We are going to win this state in a very short period of time. Thank you. This feels like the day before the election. So we have 20,000-plus people inside. We just set a new record. And we have 25,000 people that we still love, outside. And close to 100,000 people wanted to come tonight. Thank you all. This is great. This is really great. Thank you. I want to thank our great vice president, Mike Pence, and Karen Pence, for being here tonight. It is great to be back in the Twin Cities with the freedom-loving American patriots who make our country run. You know that. You know it. For the next 13 months, think of that, it seems like yesterday, for the next 13 months, we are going to fight with all of our heart and soul, and we are going to win the great state of Minnesota in 2020. America now has the number one economy anywhere in the world, and it's not even close. You know I'm dealing with China right now. They're in Washington. We're going to see if we make a deal. But they want to make it. We're going to determine whether or not we want to make it. But they've been very nice. And today I got a call from one of the top representatives, he said, "Congratulations, Mr. President, on having a truly great, great economy." That's pretty nice. We picked up, since the election, trillions of dollars in value. And China has lost trillions of dollars in value. I will say this, if our opponent had won that election, you know what would have happened? Right now China would become the … It would be the number one economy anywhere in the world. And right now I can tell you they're not even close. Our country is stronger than ever before because we are proudly putting, for the first time in a long time, we are putting America first.  cops love Trump, Trump loves cops. Our bold pursuit of this pro-American agenda has enraged, and you know what's happened, it's enraged the failed ruling class in Washington. Not easy to get them out, but we're doing it slowly, but surely. These corrupt politicians and the radical leftists got rich bleeding America dry. And they knew that my election would finally end their pillaging and looting of our country. And that's what they were doing. And that's what they continue to try and do. That is why, from day one, the wretched Washington swamp has been trying to nullify the results of a truly great and democratic election, the election of 2016. They're trying. They're not getting very far. They want to erase your vote like it never existed. They want to erase your voice. And they want to erase your future. But they will fail, because in America, the people rule again. Do you remember that, just 19 minutes after I raised my hand and took the oath of office, The Washington Post, a terrible newspaper that doesn't know how to write the truth, published a story, and in this case, they might've gotten it pretty correct, they said, "The Campaign To Impeach President Trump Has Begun." That was the headline. Little did we know they weren't playing games. Think of that. That was 19 minutes after the oath of office. Months earlier, Peter Strzok, remember, he and his lover, Lisa Page. What a group. "She's going to win 10 million to one. She's going to win. I'm telling you, Peter. I'm telling you, Peter, she's going to win. Peter. Oh, I love you so much." "I love you, Peter." "I love you too, Lisa. Lisa, I love you. Lisa, Lisa, oh God, I love you, Lisa. And if she doesn't win, Lisa, we've got an insurance policy, Lisa. We'll get that son of a bitch out. We got an insurance policy." And we're living through the insurance policy. That's what it is. The phony Russia hoax. " Lisa, I love you." Now the do-nothing Democrat con artists and scammers are getting desperate. 13 months, they got to move fast, because they're not beating us at the polls and they know it, despite the phony polls that you see all the time, their phony polls. You know, polls are no different. Remember I always used to talk about polls, I know polls very well. Polls are no different than crooked writers. They're crooked polls. They're crooked polls. No different. Boy, that's a lot of media. Look back there. That's a lot of media. They are so dishonest. And frankly, they are so bad for our country. They are so bad. And they could be so good for our country. They could be so good. And maybe they'll change, and maybe they won't. I've been waiting for a long time. After I won the last election, I said, "Finally it's okay. Finally I'll get some great press." They got worse. They got worse. I said, "Finally, we're going to get …" I said to the first lady, "Darling, we're going to finally get respect. We're going to finally get media and press coverage. It's going to be great. Look at what we've done." And I'm telling you, they did, they got worse. They know they cannot win. You understand. Well, if you didn't understand, honestly, there's no way anybody could win, because you'd believe them. If you believe them, there's no way anybody could … Because it's like 94% … I can do the greatest things in history, and they'll make them bad to very bad. And if I do a neutral, something neutral, it worked out okay, not great, it's like, "Give him the electric chair. That was terrible." Right? No, this is the worst. These people and the Democrats, they're partners. It's a partnership. How about on the newscast, like the word "manufactured," it's manu… And every newscast, "Tonight, in a manufactured deal along the border …" The word's never been used … All of a sudden every newscast is using it. It's a talking point given to these fakers by the Democrats. So they know they can't win the 2020 election, so they're pursuing the insane impeachment witch hunt. I've been going through it now for more time than I've been in office. Because, like Strzok with his insurance deal, this was before, remember this, this was before, that statement was made months before I took office. That statement was made months before the election took place. They said, "Just in case, we're going to have an insurance policy." That only means one thing, "We're going to get him out." So they're telling us. We can't let that ever happen again to another president. And Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, a lot of people, the great Mark Levin. We have a lot of great people. Lou Dobbs, great people. You know what they said? Every one of them, plus many others, "There's no other man that we've ever met that could have taken it." It's true. Maybe I'm a little different up here. I don't know. But I enjoy it. To me, I'm energized because we're draining the swamp. The Democrats' brazen attempt to overthrow our government will produce a backlash at the ballot box the likes of which they have never ever seen before in the history of this country. These are bad people. My phone call, as an example, with the president of Ukraine, was perfect. Everybody that looked at it. And the only reason I released it was that the Democrats put out a phony narrative. So I had no choice. And I don't want to do that as president, every time a president from a country calls me, or I call them, we have to release the text. How can you do business that way? Who's going to want to speak to your president? So the president of Ukraine reiterated today at a major news conference, on other subjects, that he was under absolutely no pressure. He doesn't even know what they're talking about. And he used the word, there was no "blackmail" during this call. He used that term. So in theory, that should be the end of it. Think of it, a president of the United States who's made our economy, with a lot of help from all of you, frankly, but from Mike and from some of our great senators and some of our great people that we have with us, we made this the strongest economy in our history. We've rebuilt our military. We're taking care of healthcare like nobody's been able to do. What we've done is incredible. And by the way, we're protecting your Second Amendment. If you don't have me, your Second Amendment is gone. So we have the greatest economy, the greatest military. We've rebuilt our military, $2. 5 trillion, because when I took it over, it was a mess. And what do they want to do? "Let's impeach our president," right? I don't think so. I don't think so. I think we're going to have a turnout the likes of which we've never seen in the history of our country. So we were really forced, just to put it away, we were forced. I said, "Just do it." Got the approval from Ukraine. I have to ask. I said, "Hey, do you guys mind?" They said, "That's a strange request." I said, "Don't worry about it. Do you mind?" And they said, "Please, go ahead. Nothing was said wrong on that call." So we released the transcript of the call, which was so good that that crooked Adam Schiff, this guy is crooked, he had to make up a fake conversation that never happened- A fake conversation that never happened, and he delivered it to the United States Congress and the American people. It was a total fraud. And then Nancy Pelosi said, "Oh, I think the president said that." These people are sick. I'm telling you, they're sick. And you know what? Had they waited one day longer, they would have had the transcript of the actual call, word for word. It would've been perfect. Instead, they released it, they went early, they said all these horrible things. You know why? Because they never thought in a million years that I was going to release a transcript of the call. So Nancy Pelosi, upon hearing a false story from a whistleblower that had no clue what was going on in that call, or somebody gave her very bad advice, but also hearing it from shifty shift Nancy Pelosi said, a day before seeing the transcript of the call with the Ukrainian president, "We've got to impeach him. We've got to impeach him." Right? And then she saw the call and she said to her people, "What the hell? Nobody ever told me this was the call." But she keeps going anyway because the press is fake and they play right into their hands. The do nothing democratic extremists have gone so far left that they believe it should not be a crime to cross our border illegally, and it should be a crime to have a totally appropriate casual, beautiful, accurate phone call with a foreign leader. I don't think so. As our brilliant White House counsel wrote to the Democrats yesterday, he said, "Their highly partisan and unconstitutional effort threatens grave and lasting damage to our democratic institutions, to our system of free elections, and to the American people." That's what it is. To the American people. It's so terrible. Democrats are on a crusade to destroy our democracy. That's what's happening. We will never let it happen. We will defeat them. I mean, look at their debates. These people are crazy. They want to spend $99 trillion to redo buildings all over the United States. I said, "What about China? What about Russia? What about India? What about all these other countries where that stuff is just flowing out?" It's all right. Let him give you the answer. Man, did the cops act fast. He's already gone. That's unbelievable. That's the fastest … You know I have … Look, I love law enforcement. I love the cops. I love the police, all of it. Minneapolis, Minneapolis, you've got a rotten man. You've got to change your mayor. You've got a bad mayor. You've got a bad mayor. But you know what? The police … I've done this a lot and every once in a while we'll have very little disturbance. It's really … Actually, is there any place where we can have more fun than at a Trump rally? And we've set every record at every place, virtually, that we've gone. And one of the big musicians said, "And Trump does it without a guitar." Can you believe it? Without a guitar. But this guy … So I've had it a lot where … But sometimes it'll take the police like 30 seconds, 50 seconds. It's like Roger Penske when you watch him, who's getting the Presidential Medal of Freedom, by the way, pretty soon. He won 18 Indy 500s, 18, Roger Penske. But it's like the way they change those tires, takes four seconds to change the whole damn thing. I say, "How the hell do they do it?" That's the way these cops just reacted. That was a record. I think it was a … I've had good service, but I've never had anything like that. I look up, the guy is already gone. Ah, we love you with the red shirts. So now the Democrats are making a pathetic bid to save sleepy Joe, sleepy Joe Biden. And you know what? I'd love to run against him, to be honest. Anybody like that. If you can't beat him in a debate, you've got a big problem folks. You can't beat him in a debate, you can't be president. Because what are you going to do against President Xi and Kim Jong Un. You can't beat sleepy Joe, but now we're going to meet with Kim Jong Un? I don't think so. But he's totally owned and totally controlled by the Washington swamp for many years. Two months after president Obama put Joe in charge of Ukraine policy, they put Joe Biden in charge of Ukraine policy. Listen to this. And the press will not write it. They say, "In totally unsubstantiated charges …" every time they talk about him. President Trump has said that his son walked away with a fortune. Now you know that's a totally unsubstantiated charge. Really? It's not an unsubstantiated, it's fact. Joe's son Hunter got thrown out of the Navy and then he became a genius on Wall Street in about two days. By the way, whatever happened to Hunter. Where the hell is he? Where's Hunter? Hey fellows, I have an idea for a new t-shirt. I love the cops, but let's do another t-shirt. Where's Hunter? Where is he? Here's Hunter, being examined by sleepy eyes Chuck Todd or some of these people. Hunter, it's so great that you're here, sir. Hunter, I know they're giving you approximately $168,000 a month. I hear they paid you a big check of $3 million. I just want to speak on behalf of NBC who's absolutely one of the worst. I just want to tell you … Hunter, Hunter I just want to tell you I couldn't be happier for you and your family and I know you don't know anything about energy and I know it's an energy company, but I think they made a great deal, Hunter. And then they fly to China, and I'm dealing with people right now. They're tough as hell, those Chinese negotiators, and Hunter, who's not too smart, Hunter. He goes in, he has a meeting, he walks out in his fund with 1.5 billion, with a B, one point five billion dollars. These aren't the same Chinese negotiators that I'm dealing with, I can tell you. These are not the same ones, but we are doing very well in that negotiation. Now, think of it, where's Hunter? Where is Hunter? I want to see Hunter? Hunter, you know nothing about energy, you know nothing about China, you know nothing about anything, frankly. Hunter, you're a loser. Why did you get one point five billion dollars, Hunter. And your father was never considered smart. He was never considered a good Senator. He was only a good vice president because he understood how to kiss Barack Obama's ass. True. Thank you. Thank you. It's true. It's true. And they're always saying the same thing. Yeah, he got a billion five, we admit it, they admit it, it's nothing, but oh, it's not that same thing, president Trump made a totally unsubstantiated claim about Hunter Biden and his father. It's not unsubstantiated, you crooked son of a guns, it's 100% true. 100%. Even the smart guys on Wall Street, and I know all of them, they are smart. They've never seen anything like that one before. I've called them. Does that ever happen? Never happens. Guy walks in, no experience, no nothing. Walks out with a billion five. Gee. Flies in on Air Force Two with his father, the vice president. Don't forget, that's when he was vice president. So China gives his son 1.5 billion. How would you like to have Joe Biden take over negotiations right now with China? I don't think so. I don't think so. Meanwhile, Biden allowed China to rip off America for eight years as vice president, and Barack Obama let him just rob us blind, and we're not doing that anymore. Those days are over. The Bidens got rich and that is substantiated. While America got robbed, that's what happened. Sleepy Joe and his friends out America, they didn't have tough negotiations. I look at these trade deals and I say, "Who the hell could have done this?" If you didn't … If you had no business instinct, no business ability, if you had nothing, if you're dumb as hell, you wouldn't make these deals, they're so bad. I say, "Who made these deals? Who made these deals?" But we're ripping them all up and redoing them and they're going to be very good. Wait until you see what happens. Now that I'm your president, you see it. America is winning again and we're respected again as a nation. A brand new report just came out as I'm walking on the stage. Hard to believe, actually. It turns out that Joe Biden was vice president, he worked with the so called whistle blower. This is nothing but a partisan witch hunt, sabotage, and I'm sure they're going to say it's totally unsubstantiated, but one of them wrote this story. Congratulations, by the way. That's very nice. That's really good. That's the way you should do it. Good. Good. Good. In the twisted worldview of Democrats and the media, it's okay for politicians to ship our jobs to foreign countries, flood our communities with drugs and crime, and enrich themselves at America's expense. Their treachery is allowed because they go along with the rigged Washington game, and it is far more rigged. When I ran, I thought it was rigged, but this is crazy what's happening. But if you refuse to bow or bend to the Washington swamp, which I could do very easily, I'd be much more popular. Folks, it would be so much easier. But they smear you, they spy on you, and they target your friends, your family, your staff for harassment, for abuse, for destruction. I came down to Washington with incredible people. We won a great political campaign. They were bright eyed and bushy tailed. that's a nice phrase. They came down, they were happy. They wanted to turn the country around. They wanted to do great things. All of a sudden they get summoned and they get subpoenaed by Robert Mueller. How good was he as a witness? Not too good and by people that were, I call them the 13 angry Democrats, that turned into 18 angry Democrats. It was disgraceful. So people that were going down, "Sir, what is this?" I look, "Oh wow, that's a subpoena." What the hell is this? They took people … I really mean this. They took people that were full of life and energy and vigor. We had just won the greatest campaign in the history of American politics, it's true. It's true. And they destroyed their lives. They destroyed their lives. They went home. I could name many people, one in particular, who came down, an incredible young woman. She was going to help people. She wanted to help people. She had causes that were so good. She wanted to help people, and she ended up going home, dark, dark. Her life became hell. They ruined people. They destroyed people, good people. People that ended up paying far more money in legal fees than they made. Than they made. They destroyed great people. They're vicious, horrible, and the media was behind every single step. They destroyed so many lives. They destroyed so many lives, and they're continuing to do it. And it's a disgrace. When all of their ludicrous hoaxes have been exposed as frauds, these sinister fakers then tried to impeach you for daring to call out their own corruption. There's nothing like the dirty political establishment, and I have to tell you, this is, friend of mine, very smart, brilliant guy, was with me about two weeks ago. We just got rid of the Russia hoax and then a week later the Ukraine hoax starts. I had a week of like, "I can think about everything perfect. It's so beautiful." And he said, "President." I said, "Call me Donald. You've called me Donald for 35 years." "I will. Thank you Donald." I've lost all my friends because they're all scared to talk. Honestly, I'm the president that they can't talk to me anymore. It's like they're afraid. They respect the office. It's true. They say, "President." I say, "Do me a favor, Richard. You've called me Donald for 35 years. Call me Donald, please. I want somebody to call me Donald." True. He said to me, I just told him call me … He said, "President, I can't do it." He said. So he says, "President, you've been here now for, think of it, almost three years. Can you believe we're here three years?" We, we, it's we. And we have to promise them no more than 16 years. Okay? No more. No more. 16 more years. I'm only kidding. Now they'll go back. See, he wants to run for more. But he said, "President, could I ask you a question? It's so important to me." He's a great businessman, very successful. He said, "You deal with all of these nations, these great, powerful … Who is the worst to deal with? Is it China? Is it North Korea? Is India? Is it Russia? Please tell me, Mr. Pres, who is the toughest nation to deal with?" I said, "You're not going to believe this. It's the USA is the toughest nation to deal with." The USA. It's true. Because we're dealing with some very sick and deranged people. There is nothing that the dirty political establishment hates more than a president that they cannot intimidate, own and control. They're trying to stop me because they know that I don't answer to them, I answer to you. It's true. I never say this. I don't think I've ever said it in a speech, but they'll find out if I did. They'll give me Pinocchios, he said it before, but I don't know if I ever said this before. But I make, as president, about $450,000. I give it away. I don't care. I don't want it. I never hear anything. Can you imagine if I didn't. I give it away to … You can only give it, you can't keep it. You can't actually make a gift. You can give it to your different agencies. So I can give it to health, I can give it to transportation, I can give it to military, but I give it away all the time. Now, and if I ever did … But it's 450. If somebody stays from, let's say, a middle East country in one of my hotels and we charge him 392 dollars and 53 cents for staying, and I never heard of the guy and I don't want to hear about him, they say, "Trump is getting rich off our nation." I lose billions being president. I don't care. It's nice to be rich, I guess. But I lose billions. If somebody rents a room someplace and they pay me two months in rent or hotel fees, I never heard of the people. I never know who they are. They say, "Emoluments." Nobody ever heard of the word emoluments before. Emoluments. It's the craziest thing I've ever seen. I tell you, it's cost me billions of dollars to be president. It really has. And at some point I'll probably to prove that, and I look forward to doing it.. It's very easy. It's very easy. And there is nothing that makes me happier than making that decision to run and win and straighten out the mess that these people have created. So in desperate attempt to attack our movement. Nancy and Chuck, two beauties, have given control of the Democrat party entirely over to the radical left, including Minnesota's own representative Ilhan Omar. I know you people. I know you people. I know the people of Minnesota, and I want to tell you, and I also, at the same time, it's both a question and a statement, how'd the hell did that ever happen? How did it happen? How did it happen? Congresswoman Omar is an America hating socialist. She minimized the September 11th attack on our homeland. Where far more than 3,000 people died, saying, "Some people did something big deal. Some people did something." She pleaded for compassion for ISIS recruits right here in Minnesota. Omar laughed that Americans speak of Al-Qaeda. You remember that tape? Speak of Al-Qaeda. But when we say something about the United States, you just don't say America with any intensity. Remember that? Representative Omar has a history of launching virulent anti-semitic screeds, whether you like it or not. She's said the US support for Israel is all about the Benjamins. She said that pro-Israel lawmakers have an allegiance to a foreign country. Omar wrote that Israel has hypnotized the world, may Allah awaken the people and help them to see the evil doings of Israel and the United States. How do you have such a person representing you in Minnesota? I'm very angry at you people right now. She is a disgrace to our country, and she is one of the big reasons that I'm going to win, and the Republican party is going to win Minnesota in 13 months. Thank you very much. So we're honored to have with us today a special guest, a man that really is a terrific talented writer. He knows a great deal about all those tangled lies of Omar. Mr. Scott Johnson of Power Line. He wrote some stuff, I can't believe it. Where's Scott? Where's Scott? Thank you, Scott. Thank you, Scott. What a job. Man, do you have her figured out. The only problem is, Scott, it's incredible talent, much more talented than most of these people that you heard about. The problem is they never pick it up. They don't want to pick it up, but we pick it up, Scott, and the people get it and we thank you for your great reporting. Thank you. Thank you very much. And Scott reported everything about Omar is a fraud, including her name. Scott reports his sources told him that, quote, Omar's legal husband was Omar's brother and that she had married him for fraudulent purposes. You mean like coming into the United States, maybe? And as Scott says, "We have seen a plethora of congressional scandals in our history yet we have never seen scandals like Omar's in Congress, and nothing gets done about it." I hope that some of you people are looking, because what AOC has gotten away with campaign financing and what … I call it AOC plus three, that's what it is. And Omar is one of the three. What AOC has gotten away with all of that money that she used for her personal self with campaign finance is worse, and nothing happens to them, but it happens to you, and it's not fair. The fact is, we're in a struggle for the survival of democracy in America. The only message these radical socialists and extremists will understand- Message these radical socialists and extremists will understand is a crushing defeat on November 3rd, 2020. With your help, we will win back the House, we will keep the Senate and we will win the White House. And we're thrilled to be joined tonight by some incredible people that have helped me so much. One of your tremendous talented, tough, Congressman Tom Emmer. Tom. Also a man, you don't want to fight him, and you don't want to play him in hockey because he was tough. He just won, not that recently but pretty recently, and I was out here campaigning for him and working hard, and it turned out to be an easy race because everyone loves him and respects him. Congressman Pete Stauber. And a man who gets in the trenches, and he just doesn't care. He wants to win for the people. He loves you. He loves this state. He loves this country. Jim Hagedorn. Thank you. And a great friend of mine with his incredible family. He's a friend. He's smart. I guess you'd say he's brilliant. His education is incredible, his military career has been incredible. Then he ran for office, and now he's a United States Senator from the great state of Arkansas, Senator Tom Cotton. Great guy. And Minnesota Senate Majority Leader, Paul Gazelka. Paul. Thank you Paul. Minnesota GOP Chairwoman, Jennifer Carnahan. She's been incredible. I said, "Jennifer, are we going to win in 13 months?" She said, "Honestly sir, I've never seen anything like this. It's going to be easy. Don't ever say… Just assume we're two points behind, okay?" Two points behind. You never ever… Please. Always just assume you're a little behind, but we're going to win this state by so much that people are going to be shocked. Ad plenty of other states too. We had a rally three weeks ago in New Mexico, and New Mexico's a hard state for Republicans, hasn't been won in a long time also. And we had receptivity that was unbelievable. The audience was 40% Hispanic, where we're doing great. And you know, Hispanic, they understand borders better than anybody, better than we do. They understand safety, they understand their job, they don't want people taking it away, they don't want crime. They understand it better. That's why we're doing so well, but we're in New Mexico, and I'm telling you, that was electric. But honestly, all evenings are electric. We haven't had any bad ones. We haven't. They're all electric. A woman who headed up the great state of Michigan for me, a state that hadn't been won in a long time by a Republican for whatever reason, but it hadn't been won. I guess we didn't have the right candidates, right? But a woman who would call me constantly. I'd say, "I don't want to talk to her. She's giving me a headache." "Sir, if you make one more trip, you're going to win Michigan." I say, "All right," I make the trip, I go back home. I get a call the next morning, "Sir, we need one more." This went over and over and over, and we ended up winning the state of Michigan, and I said, "Who the hell was that woman that kept bugging me to go back to Michigan and speak just one more time every week? One more time, sir." And her name is Ronna McDaniel. She's fantastic, and she's the head of the RNC. She's great. And our campaign manager, a man who's really been… They used to say that Crooked Hillary had a very very sophisticated campaign. After she lost, they said, "I guess it wasn't sophisticated." We had a sophisticated campaign. Nobody knows the world of computers better than this guy. Brad Parscale. Remember when they used to say it? You know, I never got credit. My father used to teach me, if you can do it for less and win, that's good. He wasn't talking politics. The last thing… He's looking down. He's definitely looking down, not looking up. He was great. He was tough, but he was great. But my father would say, "If you could do it for less and win, that's a good thing, not a bad thing. If you can build a building for less money than the guy across the street, and if it's a nicer building and you can rent for less, you're really… That's like a good thing." So in the campaign, we spent much less money than Crooked Hillary Clinton, much. And we won. And we won. We won 306 to 223. That's a pretty big… Remember? Remember they said electoral college. By the way, when you run, if you're running, the electoral college is like the 100 yard dash, and the total vote, you don't go certain places. You focus. Electoral college. We have to explain to them, it's different. So we won 306, and do you remember they sued to say one's the 100 yard dash. You practice. One's the mile. You practice. It's a different race. Winning the total vote is much easier in my opinion. The electoral college, I had to go to 22 different states. For the total vote, I'd go to four states maximum, right? Much easier. It's much easier. I'm all for it, but the electoral college is better for our country because it forces you to go places that you wouldn't go. I love Maine. I went to Maine four or five times. I needed one point. Maine gave me one point. And what happened? What happened? I went there numerous times. Everyone said, "Why?" Because I was told by these fraudsters back here in the media that Trump cannot get to 270. He cannot get… They had me maximum, if everything worked, right? At 269. So I kept going to Maine, and you know what? We won that one point in Maine. We won it. It's true. But I kept going. They say, "Why?" I said, "Well, first of all, it is really a beautiful place," but we won the point. But they said, "He can not get to 270," and I heard this for months and months. I had such a headache, almost as bad as listening to Mike's damn commercials about those pillows. Maybe I need one of those pillows to cure my headache. Does it cure headaches? I think so. But here's the thing. Here's the thing. So they said, "He cannot get to 270." In other words, you can't win. You don't get to 270, it's over. You can't win, right? He cannot do it. There's no way of doing it, and they were right. I got to 306. They were right. But I didn't get to 306. You got to 306. We won incredible states. We won incredible states. We won Wisconsin, we won Michigan, we won Pennsylvania, we won North Carolina, we won South Carolina, we won Florida. What a run. Do you remember the evening that we won? I think… Look, forgetting me, I think it was won of all of us together because we all worked hard. I was the messenger, but we all worked hard. That was our victory, not my victory. But that was one of the greatest nights in the history of television, one of the greatest nights, and hopefully it'll go down when we're allowed to get all of this stuff seeded… You know, it's like a tree. You plant it. You plant it. It has to go, but it needs a little… That's why we need the four more additionally years. It's got to grab on and catch, so they can't destroy it. So they can't destroy it. But I think it'll go down, and I hope it's going to go down as one of the greatest evenings in the history of this country, because it's never happened, anything like that before. And these guys don't even question it. They just sit back and say, "I guess he's right about that." I'll never forget the night before, I was at a tremendous arena. The place was going crazy. It was like this, going crazy, and two reporters that hate my guts, they looked at themselves, they looked at each other. Famous shot. They're looking like this and they're saying, "What the hell is going on?" They knew. They knew. And I didn't need Beyonce and Jay Z, and I didn't need little Bruce Springsteen and all of these people. They'd get all these people. They'd come in because she couldn't get a crowd. They'd come in, they'd sing. They got Bruce Springsteen. Okay? He'd do about two songs and leave. What happens is, they leave, and then everyone leaves with them, and she's still speaking in front of the same lousy crowd. It's the craziest thing I've ever seen. And then they complain. Sometimes I'll use terrible word like hell. The other day I used the word hell. I got hell from… They said, "He used terrible language." I used the word hell. It was so bad. But you've got to hear Jay Z, the words he was using, he was using the F word all over the place, and then the next day they say I use bad language. The word hell is a terrible word. These people are sick. But that was an amazing evening. I'll never forget that evening. Look. Outside of your family and your children and things… I love you too, darling. It was one of the highest rated evenings in the history of television. You add up all those networks. Remember the woman crying? Oh my God. No, they weren't biased at all. Now, another very special man who's with us today, but he'll never be a man to me, he'll always be my boy, you know what I mean? Right? He's my boy. He's my little six foot six boy, Eric Trump. And the parents understand that, right? They may be big and strong and older. To a parent, a child is always their boy or always their little beautiful girl, and I know that's probably politically incorrect. They'll say, "It was terrible what he said about women. Terrible." But they're our boy and they're our girl, and it doesn't matter how old we get and how old they get, is that a correct statement? And I'm also proud to endorse your next Republican Senator from Minnesota, a man that I've known, a man that is tough and smart, a man that's running against somebody that's never done a damn thing in the Senate, Mr. Jason Lewis. And Jason did a great job in Congress. Congressman Lewis, thank you very much, and thank you for putting up with all of this stuff because I'll tell you, it's going to be nasty. It's going to be nasty. They're going to make up stories about you. They're going to say things that's going to want to make your wife say, "Why did I marry this guy?" Just say, "Don't worry about it. It's just another phony story." Thank you very much Mr. and Mrs. Lewis. Jason, thank you. And Jason, they can say that about Tom Cotton. He's too perfect, this guy. He can't say… They can't say it about you, Tom. Anyway, good luck Jason. Do well. And I don't know why, but with all of the great people I just introduced, for tonight, maybe this is the most important person, because I turned on a very good show in the morning. Fox and friends. They treat us great. I just want fairness. What a great group. Ainsley and Steve, and by the way, Brian has gotten a lot better, right? And how good does Jessie Waters do? How good? Right? Just some really great people. And again, Tucker's been very good I have to say. He's been good. Smart. He's been great. Tucker, and the legendary Sean Hannity. Great. Number one. Number one show. Sean's got the number one show. And Laura Ingraham is knocking them out of the park, Laura. And you go over, Maria Bartiromo, and the great Lou Dobbs. How good are they? Lou Dobbs. And many more. And many more. How about Greg? Greg used to hate me. Now, he's good. Oh, we can't forget… We can't forget Judge Jeanine. I would be in such trouble if I forgot Judge Jeanine. No, these are… And there are many more. I just… Look, I'm just rattling some names off, but they're just terrific people. They're terrific people. But a man that I have to really say something very special about… 00 slot, because I'm out of there pretty good, and I see a handsome young man named Bob Kroll, Cops For Trump. And he's talking about this lousy mayor they've got. Now, he didn't quite say that, but I say it. He's talking about this lousy mayor that won't let the cops, the police, the law enforcement… My father always used to say, "Son…" And he meant it to. "Never say cops. It's disrespectful. Say police officer." I said, "Okay Pop." But honestly, the truth is with time, I love you guys whether you're cops, police officers, law enforcement. I'll call you whatever you want. It doesn't matter. You are so great, so respected. You don't even know how much our public loves you. You don't know it. You don't know it. You don't know it. But I see this guy, and I don't know if he's done a lot of television before, but he was very effective and very good. And he was saying how the police aren't being allowed to take care of this rally, and yet with President Obama and Bush and all these people, they were fine, fine. Everybody comes. They fall asleep at a rally. But they weren't allowed to do the job for us, and they went wild. So what I want to do… Go home to Mommy. Mommy says, "I saw you on television tonight. I love Trump. Don't you ever do that again." "Yes Mom. Yes Mom." But the job he did before the election, I came right here to Minnesota, and I pledged to address this really important issue, and it's the issue of law enforcement. And when I saw this man, this great gentleman on television pouring out his guts, pouring out his heart… I don't know him. He knows I've been good to law enforcement. He knows I've been good to, as my father would say, "The police." He knows I love the cops. He knows that, and so does everyone else. I mean, it's so many shirts, so many red shirts, and there are plenty of people here without the red shirts, and I want to just tell you, the respect that we have for law enforcement is unbound. It's unbound. Come up here. Bob, come up. Say something. Thank you fellas. I'll see you later. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Great people. Thank you. What a group. I think your very weak mayor made a mistake when he took them on. As you know, for many years, leaders in Washington brought large numbers of refugees to your state from Somalia without considering the impact on schools and communities and taxpayers. I promised you that as president, I would give local communities a greater say in refugee policy, and put in place enhanced vetting and responsible immigration controls. And I've done that. Since coming into office, I have reduced refugee resettlement by 85%, and as you know, maybe especially in Minnesota, I kept another promise. I issued an executive action, making clear that no refugees will be resettled in any city or any state without the express written consent of that city or that state. So speak to your mayor. You should be able to decide what is best for your own cities and for your own neighborhoods, and that's what you have the right to do right now. And believe me, no other president would be doing that. If Democrats were ever to seize power, they would open the floodgates to unvetted, uncontrolled migration at levels you have never seen before. Do you think you have it bad now? You would never have seen anything like what they want to do. But in the Trump administration, we will always protect American families first, and that has not been done in Minnesota. We've also implemented the strongest screening and vetting mechanisms ever put into place. We are keeping terrorists, criminals and extremists the hell out of our country. And I want to thank the country of Mexico. The president of Mexico has been incredible. We have now, 27,000 Mexican soldiers. They're great, and they're tough, and they are now protecting our border, and those numbers have gone down like this. Thank you Mr. President. We will not make the mistakes made in European countries, that allow a violent ideology to take root in our country, on our shores. We're not going to allow it to happen. And as you all know, to protect our citizens from those who would do harm to us, I instituted a very controversial, very hard to get, travel ban on some of the world's most dangerous countries. And the other day, one of the fake news reporters in the back said… They were talking about the travel ban, and they said, "Well you know, the president has lost in court." They said, "Where?" "On the travel ban." And he's right. I lost, and then I lost at the appellate division, and then I won at the United States Supreme Court. Right? And he knew that, but he said I lost on the… And he was right. I lost, and then I lost again, but then I won, and we have the travel ban. But instead of saying, "He lost, and then he lost at the appellate, and then he won at the United States Supreme Court," he said, "He lost on the travel ban." These are very dishonest people. Do you understand that? Very dishonest people. In the Republican party, we believe that those who seek to join our society must embrace our values, honor our history, and love our people. Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities, which release dangerous criminal aliens into the heart of your communities, and we're not letting it happen anymore. Republicans believe American cities should be sanctuaries for Americans, not for criminal aliens. My administration is taking historic action to secure the border. We have reduced illegal border crossings by over 60% since May, and we are building the wall faster than anyone ever anticipated it could be built. And this is a serious wall. You've all seen it. It's going up rapidly, and you think that was easy? I had every Democrat in Congress fighting me, fighting me, fighting me. I had a lot of the rhinos fighting me. They say, "See, he's not getting it built. He's not getting…" Let me tell you. You have every Democrat fighting you. We took it from here, and we took it from there, and we took it from all over the place, and we got that thing. That's the biggest patchwork of financing you've ever seen, and that sucker is going up, and it is the finest, it is the strongest, it's largely 30 feet tall, which is the maximum height that they wanted. I went to the Border Patrol, and I sat down with 15 representatives of the Border Patrol, and I said, "What do you want? What's your ideal?" I actually said, "I want to give you the Rolls Royce," and they killed me for that. They said, "It's not an American made product." Yeah, they happened to be right. No, they're right about that one. They're actually right there, Tom. But I said, "I want to give you the Rolls Royce of walls. Tell me." And they told me everything, and then we built some alternative walls. We built all different types. We built about seven of them, and then we had climbers come in. The one that worked the best was the one we're building. It also, unfortunately… The bad news, it's also the most expensive. But we got it for the right price. We got it for the right price. It's steel, it's hardened concrete, it's deep, it's high, it's a thing of beauty. And it's going to keep bad people out of our country. That's what it's going to do. And the Democrats knew this. Most of the Democrats four years ago, they wanted a wall. Now all of a sudden, they don't want a wall. You know why they don't want a wall? Because I want it. That's the only reason. And I just thought of it a year ago. I said, "Man, this could've been so much easier." All I had to do is say, "We don't want a wall," and they would've given me all the financing I wanted for the wall. What was I thinking? We're not going to build a wall, and they would have forced me to build it. I would've… It's true. Under this administration, we are also ending the- … this administration. We are also ending the endless wars. We have to do it, folks. We have to do it. We have totally defeated the ISIS caliphate, and I did that in rather quick time if you remember, because we have the greatest fighting machine, now. When I came in and was totally depleted. We have great generals, we have great warfighters, and they did it so fast. I flew to Iraq, I met with the generals, right? I met with the generals. I said, "I hear it's going to take a year to two years." "Sir, we can do it in two weeks." I said, "What?" "They don't let us fight, sir. They don't let us fight. We want to fight. They don't let us fight." I said, "I let you fight." I said, "How come if they say it's going to take anywhere from a year to two years, you say you can do it so quickly?" He said, "Sir, we're going to hit them from the front. We're going to hit them from the back. We're going to hit them from the sides, from underground, from overground. We going to hit the hell out of them." And they did. And we won very quickly. But from now on, we want to fight where it is to the benefit of the United States of America, not to the benefit of other countries. And we will only fight to win. We're only going to fight to win. We don't fight to win. We don't fight to win. The Turks have been fighting with the Kurds for two centuries, and Turkey, as you know, is a NATO ally. But I've been rough on them. We've defeated 100% of that ISIS caliphate, and no longer have any troops in the area. We don't have any troops. The troops have been pulled out. Where Turkey is carrying out now a very tough campaign against the Kurds, get them out. So Turkey is right now waging a very tough campaign against the Kurds. We got along with the Kurds, and we helped the Kurds. And don't forget they're also fighting for their land. You know that. But they're fighting. So we have three choices. You're ready? Here are the three choices. We don't have any soldiers there because we've left. We won. We left. Take a victory, United States. We left. Take a victory, take a victory. Bring our troops back home. I told this story yesterday, I have to sign letters, it's the hardest thing I have to do. I sign letters, "Dear Mr. and Mrs. Smith from Arkansas. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Jones from Alabama. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Somebody from some great state, I'm sorry to inform you, your son has been killed in combat. I'm so sorry." And every letter is individually done because sometimes the parents, they're grieving, and they get together with other parents, and I don't want to see that it's like the same letter. So we do different letters. It's the hardest thing I have to do. Hardest thing.it's the hardest thing I have … I was telling Tom Cotton, it's the hardest thing that I have to do. And I sign those letters, and it just, it breaks your heart. And by the way, there's a time to fight. Nobody fights harder than I do. But there's a time, and there's not necessarily a time. But I send these letters out, quite a few. And sometimes I send letters out, it's called blue on green, where we're teaching people how to fight and then they turn the gun on our soldiers and shoot them in the back. And that's the hardest thing for a parent. I have all of them. I know everyone. That's the hardest thing for a parent when they get notification, because they learn how their child has died. When the so-called people that were teaching how to fight turn the gun on them, and shoot. We've had a lot of that, a lot of it in Afghanistan, more than we've ever had proportionately before. It's a horrible, horrible thing. But I have to sign these letters. And sometimes I go out to a place, Dover Air Force Base, it's a very tough experience. Mike Pence goes, I go, other people go, Tom Cotton goes. We go out there, and we meet the parents and the families, the wives, the children, the sisters, the brothers. We meet them, and we talked to them, and their son or daughter is being flown in from some far away place in a coffin, and these things are just impossible. I don't know how parents can do it, even. And I'll meet them. And we have a particular Colonel, that's all he does. So good. So professional. That's what he does. He said, "I greet the dead, sir. I greet the dead." And what happens is this big incredible machine flies in, this tremendous cargo plane, and it flies in so powerful, so big. I'll be talking to some of the parents, and they'll act like they're fine. I said, "How are you doing?" "We're fine, sir. We're fine. We're really good." I say, "That's great." And I'll tell the Colonel, I'll say, "Colonel, I think they're doing great." "No sir, they're not going to do great. You'll see." And I didn't know what he was talking about, this is the first time. Then we went outside to the runway, and this incredible machine is flying in, and it lands, and it comes over, and it pulls up, and we have military guards, we have incredible talented musicians that do this. That's what they do. What happens is that door opens up, and the Colonel told me, he said, "Sir, when that door opens up, those same people that you think are okay, do things that you'll never see. You will hear sounds like you've never heard." That's what he does. I saw that door open up with a coffin with a flag over it. The door was opened, and these beautiful soldiers, five or six on each side, lifting the coffin and walking down the runway, the plank, they call it, off this cargo plane. And I see parents make sounds, that were just 20 minutes ago absolutely fine, make sounds, scream and cry like you've never seen before. The Colonel was telling me that, "Sir, you'll see things that you've never seen before. A mother who was fine 20 minutes ago, you think, breaking the military line and jumping off, and then jumping onto a coffin of her son or her daughter, jumping on, on top of the flowers, on top of the American flag." I've seen this. Then I have all these people that want to stay. They want to stay. And I don't want to stay. We were supposed to be in Syria for 30 days. We've now been there for 10 years. We were supposed to be in Afghanistan for a short period of time. We're now going to be there for close to 19 years. It's time to bring them home. It's time to bring them home. It's true. Time to bring them home. We've done our job, we've defeated everyone that we're supposed to defeat. And now we are, we are policing, we are now policing. That's what we're doing. We're policing. And that, as I said, no more respect for the police, but these are military people, and those are police, but we are now policing. We're not fighting, we're policing. And you know what? After all of these years … One other story, and I have to tell you. I go to Walter Reed on Friday, and I do it quite often. I gave out five Purple Hearts. And I meet people that are so beautiful, so amazing. I met five warriors, and one was so badly hurt, with the loss of arms and a leg, another one … they're just very, very devastated. But these are great, great people. And I gave out the Purple Heart. And I see the parents, and I have to say, Walter Reed, I want to just say, the doctors there, the job they do, you know, you hear so many complaints about doctors and about the vets, and the vets' care, and nobody's done better. We got choice for the vets. We did things for the vets that nobody thought would be possible. But I saw these young men, and I gave them their Purple Hearts. And their parents were there crying. And one of them was so amazing. I said, "What's your problem?" "Sir, my face was blown apart. My nose was absolutely just blown apart." He said, "Sir, it's incredible." And I looked at him, I said, "That's the most beautiful nose I've ever seen. What do you mean?" He said, "A doctor worked on my face for 10 hours in the field. He said there were a thousand fragments." Now I don't know if that's right, but well, a lot. He meant a lot. "He said there were a thousand fragments. He rebuilt my nose with glue. He glued the bones together. He rebuilt my nose." I say, "You have the most beautiful nose I've ever seen," and it's true. And his father came over to me, he said, "Sir," father was crying, he said, "Sir, honestly, my son looks better now." He said, "My son did not have a good look. He knows. Now look at it, it's beautiful, it's beautiful." But these doctors at Walter Reed, and these Army, and Marine, and the medical doctors, they are unbelievably great people. And they see sights that you and I hopefully will never see. They see things that nobody will ever see, and there's nobody like them. And I have to give a shout out to those people, there's nobody like them. So in the case of Turkey, and Syria, and the Kurds, we could send in a thousand troops for a military conflict with Turkey. No, you don't want to do that. We could hit Turkey very hard financially. Or we could mediate a deal between Turkey and the Kurds. I like that. You know? Let's mediate a deal. But remember they've been fighting each other for hundreds of years, and we were artificially put there, in this case by President Obama. So we did our job. We knocked out. And I'll tell you another thing, we have to be treated fairly. We have to be treated fairly. We're not treated fairly by other nations. We captured many, many ISIS fighters. Most of them came from Europe. They came from Germany. They came from France. They came from all of these countries. And we called them, I called them myself in many cases, I said, "Take your fighters." They said, "We don't want them. You take them." I said, "No, no, no, we did you a big favor. They're citizens of Germany. They're citizens of France. They're citizens of these various countries in Europe. Take your fighters." "We don't want them, sir. We don't want them.' And I said, "How unfair are we treated? We do them a great favor, and they won't take the fighters." So we're doing some things that are pretty amazing. Every once in a while you have to change course, and do what you have to do. The United States has spent $8 trillion in the Middle East. We've lost thousands of brave soldiers, and tens of thousands of terribly wounded people, great people, their lives will never be the same. These wars produced only chaos and bloodshed. And all of the blood and treasure we sacrificed, made the Middle East, really it's less safe, it's less stable, and it's less secure. And I say it all the time. The single greatest mistake our country made in its history was going in to the quicksand of the Middle East. We spent $8 trillion and lost thousands of lives. And by the way, the other side, we can talk about that, lost millions of lives. What did we do? So we're going to pull them out, and we're pulling people out, and we're trying to make good deals, and we're going to bring our soldiers back home, and we may need them for something else, and they'll be ready. Previous administrations lust for regime change, and also put historic Christian communities in vastly more danger than they were before we started. They are some of the biggest victims of these power vacuums and reckless foreign adventures. The Christians, the Christians. And we work hard with the Christians. We have tremendous evangelical support. We work hard with the Christians. So we're slowly getting out of the Middle East. We're doing it carefully. And we're rebuilding our military like we have never rebuilt our military before. When I came into office, a very prominent general told me, because it looked like we could have a big conflict with someone, said, "Sir, we have no ammunition." We had old planes. We had planes that were so old, they didn't fly. We had people going to the desert, the plane graveyards, airplane graveyards, picking up parts. I never want to hear a President of the United States hear those words again. I never want to have a President hear the words, "Sir, we have no ammunition." Think of that. Think of that. Now, thanks to more than two and a half trillion dollar worth of investment in our military, we have more ammunition, more missiles, more rockets, more tanks, more fighter jets, and more of everything else than we've ever had before. And we have no choice. You look around the world, and we have no choice, unfortunately. And the Democrats want to dismantle our military. After years of building up other countries, we are finally building up our country. That's what we have to do. We're replacing the disaster known as NAFTA with the brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA, a giant victory for our farmers, ranchers, workers in Minnesota. Congress should pass USMCA immediately. We hope that Nancy Pelosi can start thinking about passing some legislation instead of thinking about nonsense. And to protect our industrial backbone, I placed tariffs on foreign aluminum and foreign steel. I'm also fighting back against years of chronic trade abuse from China. And the supply chain of China, which was unbreakable, is now breaking wide open. And they understand that. And I don't blame China for what's taken place over the last 25 years. I blame the people that led our country that let that happen, where hundreds of billions of dollars a year was taken from our country to build China. It's not China's fault. In the previous administration, they put our nation's natural resources under lock and key, including thousands and thousands of acres in a place called Superior National Forest. Last year, I traveled to Duluth and announced that we would be ending this injustice, reopening Superior National Forest, and restoring mineral exploration for the iron ore mines of Minnesota. Tremendous jobs. And now the iron range is back in business. The last time I was here, a man came up to me, he said, "Sir, President Obama took our heart away, took our life away.' I'll never forget it. A man, strong guy, had tears in his eyes. He said, "You gave us back our life," because they took it away from him. We gave it back. Best iron ore there is anywhere. My administration is also fighting the Democrat socialist healthcare agenda that would obliterate Medicare. Republicans will protect Medicare, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. And for those of you that have private healthcare, health insurance, 180 million people, they are going to end it, obliterate it, and most people are thrilled with it. We are going to leave it. You're going to have your plan the way you want it. And there's no plan like those plans. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb, right up to the moment of birth. That is why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism, and blatant Washington corruption. The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and it's the party of the American Dream. For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. You remember that? Gee, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. Now you have a President who's standing up for America, we are standing up for Minneapolis, and we are standing up for the great state of Minnesota. We begin this political campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda, and the only positive vision for America. We begin this campaign with right now almost three years of perhaps the most successful administration in the history of our country. Together, we will help millions more citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. With your help, we will reelect, and we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and lawful system of immigration. We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the USA. We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer, and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within 10 years. Nobody thought that could be done. Going to be done. We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. And above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work, and the sanctity of life. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our great national motto, In God We Trust. We stand on the shoulders of American Patriots who built this country into the greatest nation ever to exist in history. Our ancestors crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, and put a man on the face of the moon. Proud citizens like the people of Minnesota helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion, your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. And ladies and gentlemen of Minnesota, I will tell you this with great certainty, the best is yet to come. Thank you very much. And just in concluding, together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you, Minnesota. Thank you.Oh, thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. Thank you very much. And considering that we caught President Obama and sleepy Joe Biden, spying on our campaign, treason, will probably be entitled to another four more years after that. I wanted to thank you, and Art and Brandon, you're incredible. I've known you now a long time. Right from the beginning, we had the chemistry, we had that good chemistry… Oh, sit down. It's 122 degrees in this place. And we have our great Governor. Governor, can we make it a little bit, just a little. This is like a test. You think Joe Biden could do this? I don't think so. So I'm thrilled to be in Yuma, Arizona To proudly accept the endorsement of the National Border Patrol Council, that's a big deal. And they are great friends of mine. And we're building the wall. Next week, we'll be up to 300 miles of incredible wall. And our numbers are the best. We are very tough at the border. When people want to come in, for our farmers, et cetera, et cetera, we're not going to hurt our farmers, but we've never had better numbers than we have right now. And that's been helped because we're at a little bit over 280 miles right now, we have never been helped like this. Wall, there are two things, in a thousand years you can come back, two things will never, with technology it's obsolete before you even put it in the box, but two things never get old wheels and walls. Wheels and wall. If you come back in a thousand years, you'll say, "Well, we still have wheels in walls." And that's the only thing you'll recognize. The National Border Patrol Council is the official union representing the incredible heroes of the United States Border Patrol. They've been my friends from the beginning. To every border agent, and I just met some unbelievable people backstage, these are great people, and every family member here today, you have earned the everlasting gratitude of our nation. And I want to thank you very much. Thank you very much. As you know, better than anyone, the survival of our nation is at stake in this election. And I will tell you, I never thought I'd say it because we had a great election. We had a great election a little while ago. Four years ago, I never thought I'd say anything could compete with 2016. This election that we're going into is the most important election in the history of our country, because we had crooked Hillary, but this is something, these people are sick. And we have to make sure that this radical left socialist and beyond, because this is beyond socialism, that it doesn't happen, or we will indeed have Venezuela on steroids. So we can't do it. Most important election, November 3rd, get out and vote. Joe Biden is the puppet of the radical left wing movement that seeks the complete elimination of America's borders and boundaries. They want to take the wall down, they don't want to have borders, they want to have sanctuary cities, lots of bad things they want. Following orders from his boss. I guess his new boss is Bernie Sanders. Can you believe that? Crazy Bernie. Joe Biden has pledged to abolish immigration enforcement, suspend all removals, provide free government healthcare, and they want to give it to illegal aliens. You don't get it. Restore, catching and release. Shield violent criminal aliens. This is what they want to do. And give every illegal alien on the planet earth a free ticket to invent an asylum claim, and gain automatic admission into our country. We will have people coming into our country that never even thought of it before. You get free education, you get free healthcare, why wouldn't they come? Let's go to America. The Biden plan would unleash a flood of illegal immigration like the world has never seen. It's crazy. Biden's plan is the most radical, extreme, reckless, dangerous, and deadly immigration plan ever put forward by a major party candidate. It must be defeated, and it will be defeated on November 3rd. It will be defeated. At last night's Democrat convention, which by the way, got very bad ratings, I have to tell you. Unity. They talk about unity. They want to bring unity. And then you listen to Michelle Obama's speech, which was obsolete by the time it got there. She taped it. No, she taped the speech. It was obsolete. She must have taped it about three weeks before. I'm speaking next Thursday, maybe I'll tape it. But I don't think that goes. That's so much nicer, to tape it, you do it, nice air conditioned room. And she not only taped it, but tell me when you hear a divisive speech… They talk about me as being a divider. I'm not a divider. I bring people together. We were bringing people together. We were bringing people together, like never before. Success was bringing everyone together, and then we got hit with the China virus, but we were bringing people together. But one of the opening speakers last night said that America will go to hell if we don't have open borders. Think of that. Go to hell. When a country doesn't have borders, you don't have a country. Today, a Democrat speaker at the convention said, "We're talking about abolishing the police, we're talking about abolishing ICE, we're talking about abolishing prisons." Biden's campaign has turned into a cult for open border and others Zealots. By the way, they want to double and triple your taxes, they want to increase regulations, they want to spend very little money on our vets, after we took care of our vets better than anyone's. 91% approval rate. And they want to spend much less on our military, we've totally rebuilt. Two and a half trillion dollars, we've totally rebuilt our military. Bernie Sanders declared, in his speech, many of the ideas that just a few years ago were considered radical, are now mainstream. That's Bernie Sanders. Because Joe, he doesn't know where he is. But if he did, he's been brought so far left that our country will not be the country that we know. It will have problems, it will go down. Your stocks will be gone, your 401ks will disappear. And right now, who has the 401k? And then the rest of you, many of you have stocks, and you do it a different way. That will go down 50, 60, 70%, 80%. And if you held on, like I said to do, we went down a little while we got hit with a virus. Now, NASDAQ just broke an all time record. SNP, just broke an all time record. Socialism is the mainstream of the Biden campaign and it's not the mainstream of America. Remember I said, we will never have a socialist country. On November 3rd. The people of Arizona, our great state, we love Arizona. I won it last time, by a lot. And I hear we're going to win it by even more this time. Don't forget, last time I talked, I said we're going to give you a tax cuts, I gave you. I said, we're going to give you a massive regulation cuts. Give you your tax cuts, I gave them to you. I said we're going to give you massive regulation cuts, we're going to give you great everything. We even did Right to Try medicine. You know all about that. We did things that I didn't even talk about it, we did. We did a thing called the Space Force. You never heard me talking about. I'm the only candidate that gave you more than I promised in the campaign. It's true. I'm the only one ever, maybe ever. Or we'll head to the polls and together we'll stop the left and win four more years in the White House. We're joined today by some incredible people, friends of mine, great, great people. And I want to congratulate your governor because we had a spike and he knocked that spike out so fast. I don't know. Are you sure you even had a spike? Doug Ducey, a great governor, great man, and a somebody that won by about 16 or 17 points. That's not so bad. And I think you're more popular today. What a job you've done. Thank you very much, Doug. A friend of mine and somebody who's a great fighter pilot, and I had a lot of people tell me she could really wheel the Warthog, right? The Warthog. She said, "I love that plane," but she was a great, great fighter pilot, one of the best they were telling me. This was a group and they knew a very well. A lot of friends you have. And specifically she said, "Could you extend that plane? That's the best plane. It never breaks down. It just is a winner." But Martha McSally is an extraordinary person, and she's fighting for us, and she's helping us, and we have to bring her into the center. Thank you, Martha. And she's running against a gentlemen who is, when you read what he's done, when you read what he said about the second amendment and about all other things, you're not going to want to vote for. You're not going to want to have them play with your second amendment. I'll tell you what. If I weren't President, I don't believe, Doug, you'd have a second amendment right now. I don't think you'd have. The pressure that was put on to get rid of it, or to basically obliterate it, make it so it's meaningless. You will always have the right to bear arms. You will always have that. A few friends of mine who are warriors. Paul Gosar. Paul. Where's Paul? Paul, stand up. Will you? Paul Gosar. Thank you, Paul. Appreciate. Great job you're doing. These are warriors. They really are. When they went and they tried to make a play at your President, they had to get through the House. What were we? 197 and nothing. That's never happened before. Everybody came together. The Republicans came. Other than Mitt Romney, one half a vote. One half a brain. Another friend of mine and incredible fighter, and somebody that loves his state, and I'll tell you, the Freedom Caucus, right? And we have a man named Andy Biggs here. He's a fighter. He's a fighter. And he loves our vets, and he loves our military, and you love our second amendment, right? And we're not going to do anything with it. They will destroy that second amendment. Just remember I said it, but you're not going to have to worry about it because it's not going to happen. A woman who really distinguished herself, she became a star. She became a star overnight. There was nobody tougher. There was nobody smarter. There was nobody better than Debbie Lesko. Great job, Debbie. Thank you. We want her on our side. Right fellas? We got to have her on our side. Also, thanks to Arizona Republican party chairman, I knew this was going to happen. I knew that she was going. She never stops. She never gives up. Kelly Ward. Kelly, thank you. Thank you, Kelly. Great job you're doing. Are we winning? Okay, good. I think we are. That's what they say. We better win. If we don't win, this country is in big trouble. Big trouble. Also a great friend of all of ours, former State Treasurer of Arizona, Jeff DeWitt. Thank you Jeff. And a man who didn't choke under pressure. I don't even know if he's here. I think he might be here. He never choked. He kicked for 11 years. You know what that is? You ever see a golfer. They miss a three footer. They miss a three footer. They can't take it back. They choke, choke, choke. Well, kickers are the same. Right? NFL kickers. This guy lasted 11 years. He's one of the best kickers ever. NFL kicker, Jay Feely. Where's Jay? Where is Jay? He's here someplace. Where is he? Jay? What happened? You couldn't get a good seat, Jay. I remember the 61 yarder. That was a heartbreaker. Right? But the only thing is, I'll bet you this man would stand, only stand, for our National Anthem. That's one thing. That's one thing I can tell you. And if they don't stand for our flag, if they don't stand for our National Anthem, I turn off the game. Other than that, I'd like to watch, but I turn off the game. And by the way, I thought they learned that lesson a little while ago. I thought they learned that lesson two years ago, but maybe not, but they will. They'll learn it again. This time it'll go even faster. For decades, Washington politicians like Biden allowed an endless supply of illegal foreign labor to decimate American jobs and wages. Also, the crime was incredible what happened. They allowed criminal gangs to menace, maim and terrorize innocent citizens. They came in. They would maim and terrorize, and we have done something with our border patrol. And by the way, ICE, ICE is great. ICE has taken out thousands and thousands of MS-13, and you don't want the job. There's some tough people here. None of you want the job. It's a tough job, but they like it, and they're great Patriots, and they've done a fantastic job. They ceded control of the border to the most dangerous and ruthless cartels on earth. This is what would happen. They have ceded. And what we've done, did you ever notice the caravans? What happened? Debbie, there are no more caravans. What happened? What happened to the caravans? They don't come up anymore. The caravans don't come up. You know, we were paying hundreds of millions of dollars to Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, hundreds of millions. And I said, "Well, why are we doing that?" And they wouldn't take. When we caught a murderer and we wanted to bring it back to one of those countries, they wouldn't take him. And they wouldn't take him under the Obama administration. So we got stuck with them because they'd fly in. They'd say, "Don't land your plane." And I said something very simple. I said, "That's okay. We don't have to do that. We're not going to pay you anymore. We stopped payment." We stopped payment. It's amazing how that works, Doug. Right? We stopped payment and they called. They said, "We'd love to take them. We'd be honored to take them." So we take them back by the thousands, by the thousands. They let lethal poisonous drugs pour freely into our schools and our communities, but no more. It's not happening anymore. The cruel and heartless portrayal of the American people ended the day I took the oath of office, and now that we have more than half of the wall built, and do you notice they don't talk about the wall anymore. They don't talk. Why don't you talk? I went, "Look at all those people back there." That's called fake news, fake news. Look at them. It's the fake news. They don't talk about the wall anymore. See, we won. We got the wall. It's going to be up to 300 next week and it's going to be finished very soon. And as soon as we want, all of a sudden, they never talk about it. But you know where I talk about it? Numbers. The numbers are so good. The numbers are so low. We've never had numbers like this because that big portion of wall already built, you don't get through it. You can't get through it. You can climb Mount Everest, and you're going to have an awful hard time getting over that sucker. I stood up to the lobbyists. Everybody fought us, the Democrats, everyone. I fought the special interests. I kept every single promise that I made, and now I'm doing it with the drug companies. I just created Favorite Nation. So if a nation buys it for less and they buy it for a fraction of what we pay, the drug companies have to sell it to us for the same price. And they're spending so much. They're spending millions of dollars on advertising. Anytime you see an ad from a drug company, and they're rich, the farmer, it's called Big Farmer, the number one lobbyist. They spend millions and millions, hundreds of millions of dollars online. Anytime you see, anytime at all, you see an ad by Big Farmer against me, you know your drug prices are coming down. That's what it is. They're not happy. And we're giving the rebate that creates tremendous wealth for the middle man, the rebate. It's going to the people now. We're bringing the rebate and it's going to the people. They are not happy. I have a lot of people in that industry do not like me too much. But you are going to get 50. You are going to get, and the Democrats would never do it, Biden would never do it because he doesn't understand it, but they would never do it. They would in a million years, they wouldn't do it. It took a lot of guts to do it. I had a lot of people, a lot of good politicians go, "Sir, I don't think you should do it." I wonder why you're saying that, but we did it. We're going to have drug prices reduced over a very short period of time, by not 2%, and last year they went down a little bit, first time in 51 years that drug prices went down but a little bit, we're going to have prices dropping 50, 60, and even 70%. Drugs. About time. And I'm proud to say that they've achieved the most secure border, our border patrol, in the history of the United States of America. We now have the most secure border we've ever had and it's only going to get better. And we want people to come in, but we want them to come in through merit, right? And we want people- … people to come in, but we want them to come in through merit, right? And we want people that are going to come in and are going to love for our country, not hate our country. Here in Yuma, Arizona, we've invested over $1.7 billion and poured 180,000 cubic yards, that's a lot of concrete, to build 108 miles of powerful border wall. I know who's going to vote for me. I don't know though, I think I'm going to win Yuma. What do you think, Doug? I think, when I hear those numbers, when we hear those numbers, we're winning. We're going to win Yuma big. Now you see it and you see what's going up and it's an incredible structure, all capable, all wired up for cameras, for everything you can have. Technology is incredible. In total, I've already completely planned for the final execution, we're going to have, by the end of the year, everything that we said is going to be built. We may actually build some more in some soft areas that we've noticed over the last two years. So we actually may put up some additional, but we will have it completed, everything we said, by the end of the year and nobody thought that was possible. And we've reduced illegal border crossings by 60% since this time last year. And if we keep going at the rate, it'll be about 85% in about two months. So it's a great honor. And you know what? Your community is much safer, you see the difference, it's a much safer place to be. But more important than these numbers is the fact that we've ended catch and release. You know what catch and release is? These great men and women catch somebody, maybe a murderer, maybe a rapist, maybe a trafficker, they catch somebody, take his name, take his number and they release them into our country. And they say, "Come back in four years, you have a trial." No more. We take them out. We bring them out. And nobody said that was possible because I couldn't have gotten it through the Democrats because they don't like that. So we have people coming in to this country, some great people, some really bad people too. And I mean murders and I mean rapist, I mean really bad people and they don't get in and they don't get back. When we bring them back to their country, could be Mexico also, they don't come back. Under the Obama Biden, I call it OBiden, Under the OBiden administration, our agents were ordered to ignore the law and release illegal aliens by the hundreds of thousands. And by the way, Mark Morgan, where's the great Mark Morgan? He's around here someplace. Mark Morgan has been so incredible, one of our executives, he said, "We never built the cages. Those cages were built in 2014 by Obama." We never the cages, they were built by Obama and the fake news is constantly saying that I built cages for children. I didn't build them. They were built in 2014. There was a headline in Time magazine about the cage and somebody called in that built it. They said, "He didn't build it, we built that for the Obama administration." But they don't stop, they keep calling it, they say I built the cages. You'll hear it in one of the debates. They'll say, "You built cages president." I said, "No, I didn't build cages. That was built by Obama." Under the Trump administration, if you cross our border illegally, you are quickly apprehended and swiftly returned back home. We are proudly defending the job safety and security of the American people, which is what I promised to do. Nobody told me it was going to be this hard. Nobody told me I was going to have the Democrats go totally crazy. This was like a life and death war. You know why they don't talk about it anymore? Because they know it's bad politics, because they know having a wall, they can't win that one. So they just say, "Let's forget it ever happened.' Because we won and they say, "Let's forget." They don't want to talk about it. That includes the millions of incredible Hispanic Americans who follow our laws, uplift our community and protect our nation, in uniform. Half of all border patrol agents are Hispanic Americans, I was just with them. And today I salute each and every one of those true American heroes and that's what they are. And nobody understands the border better than Hispanics. They know what's good, what's bad. They don't want bad people coming into our country, taking their jobs, taking their homes, causing crime. Hispanic Americans are the people that are most in favor of what we're doing on the border because they understand it. They understand it better than anybody. With the help of these patriots, we've stopped the rampant asylum fraud, shut down the human smugglers and we're finding the drug dealers, traffickers, predators, and we're throwing them to hell in jail or sending them back home. MS-13, for the first time that you've ever seen this, MS-13 is totally on the run. Many of its leaders are right now behind bars and we're deporting its members in record numbers we've never reported. I can't believe how many there are. But if Biden wins, it will be a giant jail break for MS-13 and vicious criminal gangs. China wants him to win so badly. Iran wants him to win so badly. When we win, I'll have a deal with the red within a month, watch, because they're dying to make a deal. But that last hope that Biden will win, they will own our country, China, they will own our country. We made such a great deal. Last week they had the largest order of corn in the history of our country, the largest single order. Then they did it again. You know why they're doing that? Because they know I'm angry, because they know I don't care so much anymore. We made a great trade deal, but I don't care. But it shows you how smart they are, Doug. Another with normal brain power, they'd say, "Well, I'm not going to buy any more corn." That's good. And we'll just decouple, thank you very much. But they go the opposite. They buy so much, good record numbers, soybeans record numbers. Last week, biggest ever, 42% of our farmers crop is now China, over the last little while. You know why? Because they don't want bad things to happen, that's why. So they're very smart. When I have every farmer in the country calling and saying, "Please don't do anything." They're very, very smart, but we can never forget what China did to this country and did to the world. The historic achievements that I've discussed today are only a slim fraction of the extraordinary accomplishment that we've all done together in the last four years. Here's just a short list of our landmarks. Really they are landmarks, true landmarks. We instituted a national security travel ban on the world's most dangerous regions, including jihadist regions, keeping terrorists and extremists out of our country. Everyone said, "Oh, that's so bad." Remember when they said, "Oh, that's so bad." I don't think it's so bad at all. We won the travel ban. The fake news said we didn't because we lost in the lower court, we lost in the second court and we won in the Supreme court. So they said we lost. Can you believe it? They said we lost Debbie, because we lost the first two, but we won in the Supreme court, so they said, "They lost." I guess, technically they're right, we lost when it didn't matter. But we have it. We have a great travel ban now for countries that are not countries where we want the people coming in. Over the last three years, ICE officers have made over 380,000 arrests of aliens with criminal records, including those charged or convicted of over 145,000 assaults, 40,000 sex crimes and 5, 800 murders. Over the last three years, border patrol and ICE have seized over two million pounds of fentanyl, heroin, meth, and other deadly narcotics. And you see it all the time. We stripped federal grant funding from deadly sanctuary cities. They want to have a sanctuary city, not going to be like the old days. We canceled the lawless policies of the previous administration and empowered border agents and ICE officers to do their jobs and proudly enforce the laws of the United States of America. We removed 20,000 gang members, including 4,500, MS-13. That's pretty good. Who would ever think there's that many? I entered into three landmark agreements with Honduras and El Salvador and Guatemala to end the abuse of the asylum system. We cut down that payment that I was talking about substantially and they're still very happy and they are working with us very well and that includes Mexico. Right now, Mexico has 27,000 of their soldiers on our Southern border, helping us to guard our Southern border. And we're giving you the tools to do the job that you signed up for. That's what we've done. I entered into a historic partnership with Mexico, known as the migrant protection protocols, to safely return asylum seekers to Mexico, while awaiting hearings in the United States. You know about that. We had to have them in the United States and we captured them, we had to keep him here. I said, "No, no, we don't want them here. We want them outside." We got sued all over the place that we won. So now they don't come into the United States, they can wait outside. For the first time ever, the United States is now exercising our full legal authority to expedited removal. We don't have to go through years and years of litigation. You need Perry Mason to try and win. We ended the Obama Biden policy of giving work permits to newly arriving, illegal aliens. Think of that one. We established the national vetting center, the most advanced visa screening system, anywhere in the world. We know so much about the people coming in. We know the good and we know the bad. We've suspended refugee. … Good and we know the bad. We've suspended refugee resettlements from the world's most dangerous regions, because nothing is more important than keeping America safe. To me, that's number one. We've made historic progress to crack down on visa overstays. You know all about that. They overstay for years. They say, "Maybe a night, maybe two nights." Well, five years later, you catch them. No, we ended it. We issued strict sanctions on countries that failed to take back their own criminals. We have many countries beyond the four that I mentioned, the three plus one, many countries. They all take them back now. Before, they weren't taking them back at all. The last administration simply released these criminals. We're making sure they go home and we're making sure they stay home. We don't want them. We issued regulations to stop the horrible practice of birth tourism. You know what that is, right? Anchor babies, you know that, right? Anchor babies. Have a baby in our country and you stay for the rest of your life. Congratulations. You're a citizen for 90 years. Then you bring in your family. You bring in your family, right? No. No good. I implemented a historic public charge regulation to finally and fully enforce the federal requirement that newcomers to our country must be financially self-sufficient, they cannot accept welfare for at least five years. To protect our country and our agents during the pandemic, my administration took immediate action to ensure the safe and rapid return of all illegal aliens. We brought them back. We have very few in our country now. We brought them back, can you believe it? To protect US workers, I suspended the entry of low wage workers that threatened all of your jobs, American jobs, and we're finalizing the new H-1B regulations to permanently end the displacement of US workers. In January after the China virus, after the outbreak, after the outbreak, the China virus outbreak, it came from Wuhan, right? I swiftly implemented a travel ban on China and I was criticized. Biden, opposed the ban. He said, "I oppose the ban." He had no idea what the hell he was doing. Why do you oppose it, Joe? I don't know. They told me to say that. If we had listened to Sleepy Joe Biden, hundreds of thousands of additional American lives would have been lost. We did a good thing. That was in January, I imposed it, very early. A month later, Pelosi and all these people said, "Oh no, let people come in. We can't." We imposed it because China was heavily infected. Then I imposed it in Europe also, heavily infected with Italy and France and Spain. Compare our achievements with the insane and lethal policies that Biden and Bernie Sanders want. The entire Biden… Harris. How about her? Is she a great one? Is she? By the way, you talk about guns. She wants no 2nd Amendment. She wants to raise your taxes to a level you'll be paying your government back for a long time. She is not the right pick, but she was my number one draft pick. They asked me that. Why do you think? I said, "I'm very happy." They thought I was happy. They thought I was happy for him. No, I was happy for me. The Biden-Harris plan is a step by step recipe for abolishing America's borders. In the Biden, Bernie manifesto, Joe Biden, promises to restore and expand catch and release across the entire US border. You believe that? We just got rid of it. Free all illegal aliens from federal detention and close detention facilities, this would make removing illegal aliens totally impossible, and you would have murderers, killers, rapists in your midst. I don't think so. Immediately suspend all removals, triggering a tidal wave of, really a flood, if you think, a flood all across our border. End prosecution of illegal border crosses ensuring that illegal aliens will repeatedly reenter the country over and over again and terminate all protections we have enacted against asylum fraud. They want to do things that nobody thought was even possible to contemplate. Now, this is all simple and I really respect because so far I've only seen about four or five people go down. Because it is hot in here. But I will tell you this… It's 120. You know what I said before? Think of yourself at a great spa, great sauna, where it's 120 degrees and we have to pay a lot of money to be there. You have to pay a lot of money. Getting off the border, getting off illegal protection, all of that, we are going to lower your taxes further. We gave you the biggest tax decrease in the history of… The biggest tax decrease in the history of our country. We decreased your taxes more than anybody has ever done and we're doing more because that's going to spell growth and that's what happened. Companies are moving in like nobody has seen before. So we're doing that. Massive additional regulation cuts. We've cut regulations more than any president in the history of our country, whether it's four years, eight years, or in one case, more. I told you already, our military is the best it's ever been. It's got $2.5 trillion worth of new, beautiful jets and equipment and rockets and everything. Hopefully, we never have to use it. Our nuclear arsenal, and hopefully, hopefully we never have to even look at it, our nuclear arsenal is at a level that it's never ever been before, and we have to have it there, but we never want to use it. So we have done things not only on the border, the border is one element, and to me it's very important. Something that they always say about a president, the most important thing a president can do is the appointment of federal judges and supreme court justices. So by the end of our, of not my, our first term, we will have appointed 300 federal judges and appeals court judges, and two supreme court justices. When it comes to 2nd Amendment, when it comes to life, when it comes to a lot of things that you people live for, if you don't have the supreme court and if you don't have the courts in your side, you can forget it. The next president, I think, will pick two, three, or even four justices of the supreme court. They can be on the court for 40 to 50 years. You pick them young. They could be on there for 40 to 50 years. This is going to be the most consequential presidency. This is going to be the most important, and I never thought I'd say it because of what happened four years ago, this is going to be the most important election of your life. So I just want to… Thank you. I just want to say stay healthy, stay sharp, be careful. Be very careful. Go out and work like hell. We need every single vote that we can get because it's probably going to be close. I always assume it's going to be close. They have these suppression, the fakers back there, they have the suppression polls where they interview many more Democrats than they do Republicans. Doug and I were talking about it and they take out registered voters. It's not registered. They say, "Most likely to vote voters." That's what, most likely registered, they're dead, they're old, they're not going to go, they're not going to do anything. Be careful with your ballots, but get out there. November 3rd is the biggest date, one of the biggest dates in your life, in many cases, frankly, it's the most important date of your life. One other thing we've done lot. We've gotten rid of a lot of nonsense from Obama, like the Paris Accord that costs us tens of billions of dollars and gave us nothing. We've gotten rid of so many different things that you have no idea, but you know what? If we don't win, they can put it back, and with the things that we did put in, which are many, many, many things, many things, our military, our vets, everything, with all of the things that we put in, it's like a tree, it takes a little while to grab on. You transplant it. It's got to grab on. If we have four more years, there's nothing that they can do. Our country is sailing. our country is sailing. So Yuma, thank you very much. Arizona, thank you very much. Thank you for all your support. We love you. We will never ever let you down. We will never let you down. Governor, thank you. Martha, go out and win. Go out and win. Vote McSally. Thank you everybody.