I worked so hard for this state.
 I worked so hard.
 You just got two of the greatest trade deals, and add Japan to it, by the way.
 Let's make it three, 40 billion from Japan, USMCA, all done.
 China, all done for the farmers.
 It's done, that I can tell you.
 You're going to have to get bigger tractors and a hell of a lot more land.
 You've got to produce a lot of product.
 I don't know if you can, but, hello Des Moines.
 It's great to be with you.
 I'm thrilled to be back in American heartland with thousands of loyal, hardworking American patriots.
 Great people.
 This November we're going to defeat the radical socialist Democrats that are right down the street.
 I mean, I don't even know.
 I just saw, New York Times, can you believe?
 Failing New York Times… When we leave in 10, 14, 18, 22 years from now, the New York Times will be out of business and so will a lot of others.
 But, did you see they did a New York Times poll, I think, and Sienna, Sienna, New York Times of Iowa, and they have me pitted against every one of the Socialists, and we're winning by a lot.
 Everyone.
 We're beating them all.
 We're beating them all.
 We're beating them all.
 We're beating them like they haven't been beaten before.
 You know all the noises about their crazy debates, nobody's watching their debates, but it's all about their debates.
 They don't care about the farmer.
 Everything out here, they love Trump, and you should love Trump with what I've done.
 So, we're going to win the great state of Iowa and it's going to be a historic landslide.
 If we don't win, your farms are going to hell.
 I can tell you right now.
 Sell, sell, they'll be saying "Sell.
" No, we love the farmers, and we love the ranchers, and we love the manufacturers, frankly.
 You got plenty of that too in this state.
 The great state, and you have a great governor, by the way.
 You have a great governor.
 But every day we're achieving extraordinary victories for the citizens of the Hawkeye State.
 The Iowa unemployment rate has reached an all time low in history.
 That's not bad.
 That's not bad.
 Oh, let's vote for Pocahontas.
 Let's vote for Bernie.
 Let's vote for sleepy Joe.
 He's falling asleep.
 Joe, Joe, Joe.
 He always gets the name wrong.
 How many times has he missed it?
 He's in Iowa.
 He says, "Great to be in the great state of Ohio.
" They say, "Joe, you're in Iowa.
" You can't do that.
 No matter how great you speak.
 If you're Winston Churchill, if you make that mistake at the beginning of your speech, it's over.
 You might as well just wrap it up.
 There's the fake news.
 They would just absolutely destroy you.
 They would absolutely destroy you.
 You can't do that.
 You can't do that, Joe, sleepy Joe, but you have these guys.
 You have these people.
 How about Buttigieg?
 Buttigieg.
 They call him mayor Pete.
 You know why?
 Because nobody can pronounce his name.
 Nobody has any idea.
 Buttigieg.
 They say, "Say edge edge.
" He presides over a city that's failed.
 It's doing so badly, in a state that's having the greatest year they've ever had, and they have a great governor also, and they had a great governor.
 You just heard from him, right?
 The great state of Indiana, so I don't see that one.
 Go down the line.
 We have some people.
 Let's not talk about them.
 What happened to mini Mike?
 Where is he?
 He's not running.
 He's skipping four or five states.
 Mini Mike.
 I've had him up to here.
 More people are working right now in Iowa than ever before.
 Now think of it.
 Think of it.
 Yesterday we replaced a NAFTA disaster with the incredible brand new U.
S.
 Mexico Canada Agreement.
 The USMCA, you know when you have a hard time with that one, memory is a great thing.
 I've always had a great memory for whatever reason, but memory is a great thing.
 Having a great memory, but sometimes you take little clues.
 USMCA.
 Thank you, darling.
 I love you, too.
 Where is that person up?
 Look at that.
 Wow.
 What a good, strong voice.
 But you know how you remember it?
 The song I just walked in on.
 They're playing the song YMCA.
 So, when you're having a hard time, gee, what's U-S, just think of the song YMCA, and you'll remember it, USMCA.
 It's a massive win for Iowa farmers and workers of all kinds.
 It's a massive win and it creates some fairness with Canada.
 It creates fairness with Mexico.
 Probably the biggest reason that I ran was the unfair trade that I've seen, and one after one, China, Mexico, Canada, Japan, South Korea, we've made all these deals, and we have plenty left over.
 Plenty left over.
 Europe, Europe, Europe is next.
 I wanted to finish China before we started on Europe.
 I like to do them one at a time, one at a time.
 I'm a very organized person.
 But weeks ago we also signed a terrific new trade agreement with China that will boost American agriculture by $50 billion every year, and many other businesses like manufacturing, banking, finance, overall $250 billion, and you know with the farmers, because I have a place in my heart for the farmers big.
 I went and I saw Ambassador Lighthizer's in charge, he's fantastic.
 I said, "What are you doing?
 We're getting ready for the final deal.
 What are you doing?
" He said, "I'm putting in $20 billion.
" Because I asked Sonny Perdue.
 He's great.
 You know who he is, right?
 Secretary of Agriculture.
 I said, "Sonny, what's the biggest number that China's ever done with the farmers?
" He said, "Sir, $16 billion last year.
 $16 billion.
" This was two years ago.
 I said, "So, $16 billion is the biggest," because you know, they targeted you, and now we're friends with China.
 In fact, maybe we've never had a better relationship and were working with them very closely on the Coronavirus.
 We're working with them very, very closely.
 We only have five people.
 Hopefully everything's going to be great.
 They have somewhat of a problem, but hopefully it's all going to be great.
 But, we're working with China just so you know, and other countries very, very closely, so it doesn't get out of hand, but it's something that we have to be very, very careful with, right?
 We have to be very careful.
 But I said to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture, I said, "Sonny, what's the number?
" 16 and 12 the year before, and you were targeted.
 I don't blame China.
 Look, they're smart.
 They're negotiators.
 They targeted Trump states.
 Where do they love Trump?
 They love him in Iowa.
 They love him in Nebraska.
 They love him in all these states.
 They love him in Wisconsin.
 They love him.
 We won Wisconsin.
 They like him and Wisconsin, and a lot of the farm states, and they targeted.
 The farmers came to see me and they said, "Sir, you have to do what's right.
" When the fake news would interview farmers, the farmers would say, "No, no, President Trump is doing the right thing.
 It should have been done years ago.
 Should've been done years and years ago.
" But you couldn't have made it because there was too much money, $16 billion.
 So, what I did is I put a 25% tariff on everything coming in from China, $250 billion, and then more tariffs on things beyond the $250 billion market.
 We took in billions, and billions, and billions of dollars.
 We still are, and then what happened?
 When I heard about the farmers and I saw the farmers, they were in the White House.
 They came to see me.
 I had 36 farmers and I said, "I'm going to give you.
" They said, "Sir, we don't want anything.
" I said, "What do you mean you don't want anything?
 I've never heard that before.
" Everybody wants money.
 They want every.
 They said, "We just want a level playing field.
" I never forgot it.
 They said, "We don't want anything.
 We just want a level playing field, and we've been treated badly for years, for years.
" I said, "Well, you haven't been given a level playing field for many, many years, for decades.
 You haven't been given a level playing field.
 We're going to give you the levelest field that you ever had.
 But, but in the meantime, I'm going to give you $12 billion, out of these tens of billions that we're collecting.
" Don't worry.
 We had plenty of left over, because we never got 25 cents from China.
 China took from us.
 We didn't take from China, right?
 I said, "I'm going to give you $12 billion for the year before, and I'm going to give you $16 billion for this year.
" That was last year for this year.
 So, they got, meaning you, a lot of you in this audience, got $12 billion, and you got 16, so you got $28 billion over that short period of time, and you were able to actually, in some cases, I guess thrive.
 I told Sonny, "I want to take care of the small farmer too, not just the big monsters.
 I want to take care of everyone, everyone.
" But, I never forgot when CNN fake news and all these people, they go around interviewing the farmers.
 They could never find anyone saying bad about Trump.
 They'd go into diners.
 "What do you think about Trump?
 Isn't it a terrible what he's doing with the trade?
" The farmer would say, "No, he's doing what should have been done 20 years ago.
" Now, you people are going to make so much money.
 You're not going to do just, you know what?
 Just relax.
 Take it easy.
 Put it away.
 Enjoy your life.
 But you're going to make a lot of money.
 You're going to make a lot of money.
 Again, we have never had, because they respect us now, they didn't respect us.
 We have never had a better relationship with China than we do right now.
 It's a beautiful story.
 They respect us.
 The whole world respects us now.
 We're respected again.
 America is respected again.
 Okay?
 We're fighting for products made in America and grown right here in this great, great state of Iowa.
 To keep America safe, we have fully rebuilt the United States military.
 It's now stronger, more powerful, more lethal than ever before.
 We have all brand new equipment and it was all built in the USA.
 Thanks to the courage of American heroes, the ISIS caliphate has been totally destroyed and its founder and leader, the animal known as al-Baghdadi is dead.
 Crazy Nancy Pelosi said, "Don't call him an animal.
 He's a human being.
" No, he's an animal.
 He's an animal.
 Two weeks ago, at my direction, the United States military delivered another historic win for American justice.
 Our brave warriors launched a flawless precision strike that killed the world's number one terrorist, Qasem Soleimani.
 Qasem Soleimani.
 He was the mastermind of the road side bomb.
 He loved roadside bombs.
 When you see your friends and great soldiers of our country and other countries, frankly, walking around, they don't have legs, they don't have arms in some cases.
 Some cases they don't have both.
 You see them walking around, or riding around, or the most brave people, these people have the greatest attitude.
 I go to Walter Reed and I see him and the young man his legs were blown off.
 "How you doing?
" "Sir, I want to get back.
 I want to get back, sir.
" I'll tell you, the spirit of these people, it may even top the farmers.
 It may even top the farmers, which is pretty good.
 But he was responsible, more than anybody else, 90% they say of these roadside bombs sent to fight us, he was responsible and he took a hard hit.
 He took a very hard hit.
 He was responsible for murdering and maiming thousands and thousands of Americans, and hundreds of thousands of other people.
 Not acceptable.
 Soleimani was actively planning new attacks, but we ended his bloody rampage forever.
 Yet, Washington Democrats, true, like crazy Bernie and Nancy Pelosi, opposed our decision to eliminate Soleimani, and to save American lives.
 That had a tremendous impact.
 While we're proudly creating jobs and killing terrorists, Congressional Democrats are consumed with partisan rage, and obsessed with a deranged witch hunt hoax.
 You know, we're having probably the best years that we've ever had in the history of our country, and I just got impeached.
 Can you believe these people?
 I got impeached.
 They impeached Trump.
 The best trade deals, the strongest military, I took care of the vets.
 We got choice.
 We got accountability for the vets, accountability.
 We got all these things and they impeach your President.
 No, that's not going to work.
 Watch, just watch.
 They want to nullify your ballots, poison our democracy, and overthrow the entire system of government.
 That's not happening, I can tell you that.
 Washington Democrats have spent the last three years trying to overturn the last election.
 Why am I not worried?
 I should worried.
 Remember Nixon, it was like a dark period, right?
 It's a very dark period.
 It was like oh, you think about it.
 Right?
 With Clinton it was not good.
 They say that with Johnson, it was a long time ago, none of us remember, but they say it was a very dark period.
 This is a happy period for us.
 It's a happy period.
 It's a happy period because we call this impeachment light.
 This is light.
 Crazy Schiff.
 Shifty Schiff.
 He's a sick puppy.
 He's a sick puppy.
 But, you know what?
 Today you saw it, I hit my highest poll numbers since I got elected because the American people, and frankly, people all over the world, know it's a hoax.
 They understand it.
 They know it's a hoax, and we have a great party, the Republican party.
 They know what's going on.
 They know what's going on and they're going to treat us very fairly.
 But, the Democrats are trying to overturn the last election.
 We will make sure that they face another crushing defeat in 2020.
 November 3, November 3, mark it off.
 November 3, mark it off.
 Was that a great day?
 2016 November.
 Remember?
 He's not going to do well with this group.
 I did well.
 He's not going to do well with that group.
 I won that group.
 He's not going to do well here or there.
 Even the exit polls, they took it right up.
 You know what they didn't know about the exit polls?
 When people are leaving, they're always very accurate.
 People leave.
 "Who you voted for?
" "I voted for Trump.
" "Who you voted for?
" "I voted for crooked Hillary.
 I don't care that she's a stone cold crook.
 I'm voting for her.
" Who are you voting for?
 I'm voting for Trump, or Clinton, or Trump.
 They're always very accurate, but this time something happened.
 Many people, many… I like that idea.
 I like it.
 I like it.
 Wouldn't we like to run against her.
 who's tougher?
 Her, crazy Bernie, Biden, Buttigieg?
 Who would be the closest?
 Buttigieg.
 I don't know.
 Maybe we take another crack at crazy Hillary.
 Would that be okay?
 She was so easy.
 Remember that speech so innocently given talking about deplorables.
 Remember?
 Remember deplorables?
 But you know the only thing I didn't understand, I said, "That's terrible.
" But she said another word that was worse.
 Irredeemables.
 I said, "Boy," shows you how good I am at politics, I said, "She's in trouble.
 She said our people are irredeemable.
" To me that was worse.
 Well, it wasn't that word that caught on.
 It was deplorable.
 The next day I'm speaking, and women are walking around, I'm deplorable.
 Everyone's got deplorable.
 I say, "I think she made a bad speech last night.
" But irredeemable, remember?
 She called them deplorable and irredeemable, and me being so brilliant, I said, "I think that irredeemables going to get her.
" No, deplorable got her.
 A lot her like lack of ability.
 Together we are going to win back the House.
 We are going to hold the Senate, and we are going to keep that beautiful, gorgeous, incredible White House.
 People don't realize this is a lot of work.
 I just left Michigan, and Michigan is booming now because of me, meaning, my people.
 I say to Prime Minister Abe, he's a friend of mine, "Shinzo," Japan, "You got to do something.
 You got these massive deficits for our country.
 You got to open up plants in Michigan fast, Shinzo.
 Fast.
 You've got to do it.
" "Yes, I will do it.
" He'll do it, and he's doing it.
 Countries are coming in from all over the world.
 They're going to Michigan.
 They're coming to Iowa.
 They're buying your stuff again, like crazy, like crazy.
 They're going to Ohio.
 They're going to Pennsylvania.
 They're going to South Carolina.
 They're going to North Carolina.
 They're going to Florida.
 They're coming in like never before.
 They're all coming back.
 I ran on the issue trade.
 I ran on a lot of different issues, but trade was one of them.
 That was so big.
 To me, it was so big.
 I used to say, how do we allow these companies to close, fire everybody, go to another country?
 Mexico, wherever it may be, make product, sell the product into our country, pay no tax.
 Who the hell would allow this to happen?
 Who would allow to happen?
 It's like in South Korea.
 I went to him, I said, "Listen, your deal is no good.
 We have to make a new deal.
" South Korea, we're protecting them all, all these different things.
 I said, "Number one, you've got to pay us more.
" They agreed to.
 They gave us $500 million a year more.
 They said, "But nobody has ever asked.
" They gave us 500.
 That's nothing compared to what they have to do.
 That's okay.
 That's okay.
 They'll pay more.
 But you know, they made a trade deal with the United States.
 Hillary Clinton was in charge of the deal, right?
 She said it's going to produce 250,000 jobs, and she was right.
 250,000.
 You know who it was for?
 For South Korea, not for us, it was for South Korea.
 So, we renegotiated the deal, if I have your permission, we renegotiated the deal and now we have a good deal with South Korea, okay?
 This deal is going to produce, remember… This deal is going to produce 250,000 jobs for South Korea.
 She didn't lie.
 Can't say she lied.
 She lies about a lot of other things, but she didn't lie.
 How is she taking her defeat?
 Okay?
 I think so.
 Remember the debate?
 Do you promise if you lose that you will support the winner and I sort of, I didn't exactly say yes.
 I didn't say yes, in all fairness, but I got sort of like six the 68% there.
 But she said, "See he won't.
" She's the one that doesn't do it.
 No, no, I feel badly because it's too late for her to get in.
 I kept hoping, but I think, honestly I think that sleepy Joe, crazy Bernie, I don't even want to put Buttigieg in, but I think they'd actually be tougher than her.
 During this campaign season, the good people of Iowa have had a front row seat to the lunacy and the madness of the totally sick left.
 This is a radical left people that we're dealing with.
 Today's Democrat party, I don't say Democratic party, it sounds so much better in a speech, right?
 Democratic party, the Democrat, but that's not their name.
 It's called the Democrat party.
 You know some people aren't allowed to say the Democrat party because it doesn't sound good.
 I don't even like it.
 I don't like the way it sounds in this speech, but I'm going to say it because I'm not looking to have them look good.
 Today's Democrat party is run by left wing extremists who want to massively raise your taxes, increase regulations, cancel your health plans, raid Medicare, shut down American energy, destroy your social security, they will destroy your social security, eliminate religious liberty, punish free speech, confiscate your guns, abolish your borders, and indoctrinate America's children with hateful, left-wing ideology.
 Other than that, they're okay.
 Other than that, they're fine people.
 In short, this election is a choice between American freedom and Democratic socialism, and in some cases, in my opinion, it's worse than Socialism.
 Socialism's a kind word by comparison.
 The Democrats will lose because America will never be a socialist country.
 We can't.
 They're all watching tonight.
 They're sitting in their hotel room, little hotels right down the street, and they're looking at this crowd.
 The press never talks about my crowds.
 Did you see in New Jersey a couple of nights ago?
 We had signups for 175,000 people.
 We had an arena that held about 9,000 people.
 We could have sold it out 15 times.
 Okay?
 They don't talk about that.
 You know what they talk about?
 They said Donald Trump who spoke before a nice crowd.
 If Bernie or sleepy Joe has, I mean Joe had a crowd that was so small the other day that they set up a round table.
 No, it's true.
 No, they were in a gymnasium.
 There were in a gymnasium, and they set up a round table, and people that went there to hear his speech are now being asked, "What do you think of socialism?
" They just said, "I just want to be here to watch his speech.
" They set up a round- They just said, "I just want to be here to watch a speech.
" They set up a round table because the crowd was so small, and then they'll say, "It was a brilliant round table.
 It was wonderful.
" They never mention crowds.
 They never mention crowds.
 They never mention anything.
 I'll tell you, U.
S.
M.
C.
A, The biggest trade deal ever signed in the history of the world.
 Okay?
 It is, wait.
 It barely got any mention.
 We signed it.
 It barely got any mention.
 They talk about the impeachment hoax.
 They talk about all the other stuff, but the trade deal, that is going to change our country.
 It's going to bring growth.
 Wait until you see, toward the end of next year, the growth will be astronomical because of the China Trade Deal, the U.
S.
M.
C.
A, Japan, South Korea, Europe, when that happens.
 It will happen because they have no choice.
 They have no choice.
 But in the papers, and on the fake news cable shows, and the regular, look, NBC is horrible, the NBC Nightly News, it's terrible.
 The good news is people don't watch it like they used to, because they don't believe in it.
 They don't believe in it.
 And as Sean Hannity would say, MSDNC, you know what MSDNC is, right, so bad.
 CNN, total fake stuff.
 Oops, their camera just went off.
 Look!
 The camera just went off!
 CNN!
 Their camera just went off.
 That always happens whenever I say CNN, their camera goes off.
 But Americans, across the political spectrum, were disgusted by the Washington Democrats, the partisan hoaxes, the witch hunts, the con jobs.
 It's all a con job.
 And so, they don't love our country, I swear they don't.
 You look at Nancy Pelosi's district in San Francisco.
 It was so beautiful, and now it's a disgrace, being watched all over the world.
 Needles all over the place, everything else all over the place.
 I'm not going to get into it, washing down into the ocean, washing down onto their beaches, people living in tents if they're lucky.
 I mean you never saw anything, living on their most important entryways into what was a great city, San Francisco.
 What's happened?
 And all she does is work on the hoax and work on all of the stuff.
 Really, these people are very, very bad for our country.
 We have to take back the House of Representatives, we have to.
 Registered Democrats and Independents are leaving the Democrat party in droves, and we are welcoming these people, and these great voters, to the Republican Party with wide, open arms.
 And we are thrilled to be joined tonight by a lot of your great leaders, a lot of your really wonderful people.
 I'm not going to mention all the names, because all those cameras that are rolling, they don't like it when I do it, but one they don't mind is Governor Kim Reynolds.
 Come up, Kim, come up here!
 Also first gentleman, Kevin Reynolds, Kevin!
 Kim, come on, come on.
 You want to say something?
 Great, great job.
 Thank you.
 Oh, she was driving me a little bit batty.
 She would call me up, Kim, you would call.
 "What about ethanol?
" I said Kim, "I mean, I'm doing a lot for that place.
" "No, no.
 We want ethanol.
" Then, "we want biofuel.
" Then she is asking for things I never even heard of, but we got them all, whatever that hell she wanted, we got.
 Right?
 And by the way, Joni Ernst and the great Chuck Grassley are right now in Washington fighting for fairness, fighting the hoax, fighting for all of us.
 They called, they said, "Do you mind if we don't go tonight?
 We have to stay.
" I said, "I don't want you to be there.
 I want you to be where you are" because they are fighting for us.
 They are great people.
 They are great people.
 And, they would call too.
 Chuck Grassley, Joni Ernst, they would call, "We got to help our farmers, sir.
" "Yes.
 Okay, we are going to help the farmer.
" They were great.
 Lieutenant Governor Adam Gregg.
 Thank you, Adam.
 Thank you, Adam.
 Great job, Adam.
 Speaker of the Iowa House of Representatives, a man with really fantastic genes, got to have like the best genes in the world.
 Although you had an ex-governor here that had very good genes, too.
 We have his son in the audience, too, but this is Representatives Pat Grassley.
 Those genes, those two young men have the greatest genes anyone has ever had for politics.
 Thank you, fellas, thanks.
 I sent one of them, the father to China, and he's now Ambassador to China.
 Do you think he is happy?
 Is he happy?
 I think so.
 I think he is happy.
 Great Governor, longest serving Governor in history, actually, 24 years.
 We have the Chairman of the Republican Party of Iowa, Jeff Kaufmann.
 Great job.
 And just quickly, we have the world's tallest campaign manager, Brad Parscale.
 And Republican National Committee Co-Chair, who has done an incredible job, Tommy Hicks.
 And we have the great negotiator, the great man, Bob Lighthizer with us here, someplace.
 Where's Bob?
 What a job he did negotiating for you.
 And we have somebody that you never heard of, somebody that's a fantastic person, but you never heard of, somebody named Sarah Sanders.
 Have you ever heard of her?
 Come here, Sarah!
 Come on!
 That's pretty good!
 And we have a great football player, from Iowa, Matt Whitaker is here, Matt.
 Say something.
 Thank you, Sarah.
 Very popular.
 She is a terrific person, great person.
 Thanks to Republican leadership, American now has the hottest economy anywhere on the Planet Earth, not even close.
 Every Prime Minister, President, King, Queen, Dictator, whatever you want to call them, they all say, "How did you do it?
" And, the truth is we have certain advantages, but we also have a people advantage.
 We have the greatest people in the world.
 I really mean that.
 Since the election, we have created seven million new jobs.
 The average unemployment rate, under my administration, listen to this, is lower than any previous administration in the history of our country.
 Can you believe that?
 The lowest unemployment rate.
 African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment rates have reached the lowest levels ever recorded, think of that.
 More than two million millennials, you know what millennials are, young, great people with a lot of future, they have gotten jobs, and their wages have grown by nearly 5% annually.
 That's a record.
 Another record is that between the ages of 25 and 34, people are now working, and that's a record, the number of people, 25 to 34.
 And under the so-called Trump Economy, the lowest paid earners are reaping the fastest gains of any group.
 And that's a great thing.
 This is a blue collar boom, and that's a good thing too.
 That's a good thing.
 Earnings for the bottom 10% are rising faster than earnings for the top 10% for the first time ever, for the first time ever.
 And median household income is at an all time high, just for one second, president Bush, eight years, $450.
 President Barack Hussein Obama, eight years, eight years, $975.
 President Donald John Trump, two and a half years, not three, because the numbers were taken at two and a half, now it's actually higher.
 Two and a half years, including the tax cuts which are massive, and including all of the regulatory cuts, and the other things you have gotten, $10,000.
 Think of it.
 You have eight years, 450.
 Eight years, 975.
 Two and a half years, think of it, $10,000.
 It's one of the reasons the economy is doing so well.
 And let the people down the road tell you about that, okay?
 Let them tell you about that.
 And those tractors that I told you to buy, your tractors will be 60 years old if they have anything to do with it.
 They will be 60 years old.
 They will be old, tired, exhausted.
 Your land will be exhausted.
 You will be exhausted.
 We've ended the war on American energy.
 The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on earth, by far.
 We are also proudly promoting American ethanol, and I recently approved E15 to be used all year round!
 Biofuel also, but the Socialist Democrats want to shut down American energy.
 They support Representative Ocasio-Cortez.
 It's a real beauty.
 That's a real beauty.
 That's a beauty.
 I can't even believe it, but I don't want to knock it, because the Green New Deal, which would crush our farms, destroy our wonderful cows.
 I love cows.
 They want to kill our cows.
 You know why, right?
 You know why?
 Don't say it.
 They want to kill our cows.
 That means you are next.
 And they want to wipe out, totally, Iowa ethanol.
 They want to wipe it out.
 But we will never let that side get in, and by the way, that's the least of it.
 But I don't want to attack the Green New Deal, because they might change it.
 I said to her the other day, they said, "What do you think of the Green New Deal?
" I said, "Well, it should be studied carefully.
 We should look at it, look at it closely.
 I don't want to talk about until about two months before the election.
 And then I will tell you how totally insane it is.
" How about this crazy Senator?
 How about this crazy, crazy Senator from Hawaii?
 They said, "I'm totally in favor," not the smartest.
 She said, "I'm totally in favor of the Green New Deal.
" Well, that would mean there's no more airplanes.
 "Oh!
" They started screaming at her in Hawaii, they said, "How the hell are we going to get to Hawaii?
" They said, "We're going to build a railroad.
" She said that would be "the world's longest track.
" It's the world's longest.
 She doesn't know that they don't want airplanes anymore, and yet they fly around in brand new Gulfstreams, in brand new planes all over the place.
 They're flying from place to place.
 They're talking about the carbon footprint.
 "We're going to destroy the carbon footprint!
 What time is my plane taking off, please?
" To lift up forgotten communities, the Republican tax cut launched Opportunity Zones, jobs, and investment, and now rushing into over 60 newly… and this is incredible, brand, newly designated Opportunity Zones right here in Iowa alone.
 Rich people are investing vast amounts of money.
 Tim Scott, Senator Tim Scott, South Carolina, came into my office.
 He said, "I have an idea that I have wanted to do for years, but we have never had a president that could pull it off.
" I said, "What is it, Tim?
" And he talked about Opportunity Zones, first time I heard it.
 And we did it, and there is nothing, nobody has ever seen anything like it.
 Money is being poured into these communities that would have never been there.
 What's happening is incredible.
 Opportunity Zones.
 Remember it.
 For decades, politicians ran for office, promising to protect American farmers and workers.
 You've heard it all your lives, right?
 But then, they went to Washington.
 They looked at those beautiful marble columns, and that gorgeous ceiling painted, and all that gold, the way they used to build the buildings, they don't build them that way anymore.
 We could, but they just don't know how.
 By the way, we're building the wall.
 You know the wall is over a hundred miles long.
 It's over a hundred miles long already and moving fast.
 They went to Washington and they sold you out.
 That's what happened.
 They sold your jobs out.
 They sold everything out.
 Globalist politicians allowed other countries to raid our factories, ravage our farms, rob our workers, and ransack our communities.
 But the era of economic surrender is over, because now we are finally putting America first, America first.
 Before I took office, Washington looked the other way, while China stole our secrets from American agriculture.
 Your business, what they do scientifically, nobody understands what they have done to a seed.
 It doesn't sound complicated.
 It is genius, what they have been able to do, what you have been able to do.
 But those secrets were being stolen, stolen.
 And installed massive barriers to your exports.
 You couldn't do anything with exports, so people, not only China, many, many other places were stealing your secrets.
 Our new agreement with China will protect our intellectual property and pry open vast new markets for American beef, pork, poultry, seafood, soybeans, rice, dairy, and much, much more.
 But you know it is true.
 China is so big.
 1.
5 billion people.
 We have 350.
 1.
5 billion people, think of that, and we are just touching it.
 This deal will be so big.
 If it all works out, and you have the best product, the best product in the world, if it all works out, it will just keep expanding.
 250 billion will end up being much, much more than that.
 And, I've told this story before, when we were signing, we were almost finished and I said, "How much are the farmers getting?
" Meaning how much are they going to purchase from the farmers.
 And Ambassador Lighthizer said, "We put 20 billion, sir.
 The highest ever was 16, so we made it 20.
" I said "Make it 50.
" They said, "What?
" And then people, even farm people, said, "Sir, we can't produce that much.
" I said, "That's a good problem, not a bad problem.
" I said, "Make it 50," so we now have, in the contract, from 40 to $50 billion worth of purchase.
" Make it 50, make it 50!
 Right, Jared?
 I said, "Jared, you better make it 50.
" I want those farmers to come back, say, "Sir, sir, we can't do it.
 We can't produce that much, sir, what are you doing to us?
" I don't think that would ever happen?
 Do you think that would ever, I said they will figure a way.
 He's going "Absolutely not.
" Nah, I said, "Don't make it 20, make it 50.
" The U.
S.
M.
C.
A.
 is another colossal victory for American agriculture like you have never had before.
 It's time.
 We suffered for a year and a half, almost two years.
 Think of it, but not really because I was able to give you those, I won't call them subsidies.
 I made that mistake once with the farmers.
 I said to this group of farmers that came in, "Subsidy.
" I used the word subsidy.
 That was the worst word, "Sir, we don't watch subsidy!
 Please don't ever use that word.
" I said, "I won't, I promise.
" Just in that small, little grouping where you were doing nothing.
 It's called promises made, promises kept.
 Promises met.
 The last time I came, I never did this before, I never ran, so they all said, "You never ran before.
 You can't do this if you never ran," so whatever happened, it happened.
 One by one, they started dropping out, right?
 And then I was left with one, Hillary Clinton, and that worked out very nicely.
 "He cannot get to 270," remember?
 270, electoral college.
 "He cannot get to 270.
" I went to Maine.
 It's true, Maine, too.
 It's got one point, right, one.
 I went there a lot, many times.
 Everyone said, well, they kept getting me, maybe if I have a great night, 269, but 269 loses.
 Right?
 But we got 306 to 223.
 306, 223, so they were right, "You cannot get to 270, you can get to 306," but not that there is… In the eight years before my election, net farm income plummeted by 20%, you know that.
 If you look at a chart, for 15 years actually, not eight, for 15 years, it's like a roller coaster ride down for the farmer.
 Soybeans.
 Take a look at it all.
 It was just a one way street.
 Everybody was ripping off the American farmer.
 Now you're going to see numbers that are going to be great.
 Look at even what's happened recently.
 It's incredible what's going on and I love it, because you deserve it.
 You suffered a lot, with people that were stupid.
 They were stupid!
 Under three years of my administration, net farm income has already gone up nearly 50% and will now be rising even faster.
 What are you going to do?
 You are going to vote for Bernie?
 You are going to vote for Bernie?
 Here I am on the debate stage, "Well, net income has gone up for the farmers 50%.
" Tell me, how the hell do I lose this debate?
 How do I lose?
 And based on the polls, I guess I'm not going to lose in this state.
 I don't think I will lose in any other state either.
 Because this is really true all over the country.
 This is happening all over the country, not just Iowa.
 On no issue have Washington Democrats more thoroughly betrayed the American people than on immigration.
 Illegal immigration costs our nation hundreds of billions of dollars, drains public services, overcrowds our schools and hospitals, and threatens innocent American lives at a number that you wouldn't even believe.
 But we have got it closed up, but we're getting your people in.
 You have people that have worked for you for a long time, don't you?
 I know who the people that you have, and they are hard workers.
 We have a lot of great people.
 You have a lot of great people out there.
 Right here in Des Moines, a twice deported, illegal alien was charged with shooting and killing a woman, her 11-year-old daughter, and her five-year-old son.
 In this region of the county alone, last year, ICE officers arrested nearly 4,000 illegal aliens charged or convicted of heinous crimes, including robbery, rape, and murder.
 Yet today's Democrat Party glorifies illegal immigration.
 We have no idea, now we do now, but people would come in by the hundreds of thousands.
 We have no idea who they are.
 Many are fine people and all of that, but some are stone cold rapists, and murderers, and people that their countries don't want, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, and even Mexico.
 Right now we have a love affair with Mexico because the Democrats, the Democrats wouldn't give us what we needed and I got Mexico, they're great.
 They put up 27,000 soldiers on our Southern border and the numbers are plummeting, 87% down.
 The president of Mexico is doing a great job.
 And we ended Catch and Release.
 You think that was easy?
 Catch and Release, you know what Catch and Release is?
 You catch a criminal, you take the number, and you release him into the, they would never come back.
 We say, come back please in three years, this is a Democrat deal.
 Come back if you don't mind, in three years.
 We release them into our country.
 We totally ended it through a very, very slick group of rules.
 Catch and Release.
 May we please have your address and your phone number?
 "Here it is!
" "What have you done?
" "I got out of jail.
" "Oh, well, welcome to the United States.
 Please, we have a little information.
 Okay, and now we're going to release you, and in three and a half years, we schedule a court appearance for you.
" Do you believe, this is the only country in the world.
 They catch somebody on the border.
 You're supposed to be Perry Mason.
 You take them to court.
 Other countries catch somebody at the border.
 They say, " Sorry, you got to get out.
" We say, "Oh, may we have your information?
 We're taking you to court.
" Man.
 Today's Democrat Party glorifies illegal immigration, vilifies the heroes of law enforcement, and pledges to dissolve immigration control entirely.
 They want open borders.
 They want hundreds of thousands of people to flow into our country.
 And some of those people, some of those people are stone cold killers.
 Some of those people, in the caravans, right?
 I came up with that name but they won't give me credit for that.
 They don't give me credit for anything.
 They don't give me credit for fake news.
 Wasn't that my term?
 Now they say, I see CNN, they said, "Fake news has reported," no, no, you are fake news, that fake news is you.
 You are fake news.
 They turned the term around.
 They are reporting that fake news is reporting their fake news.
 Left wing politicians even support deadly sanctuary cities that release criminal aliens directly into American communities.
 We don't want them.
 In New York City, the Mayor's Sanctuary Policy recently forced the release of a- … the mayor's sanctuary policy recently forced the release of a criminal illegal alien charged with assault.
 After being set free the same criminal raped, brutalized and murdered a 92 year old woman.
 They wouldn't give him to the ICE warriors.
 Their warriors.
 They're tough and they love our country.
 They're very tough and they love our country.
 They're taking MS-13 gang members … They're about as tough as you get, they're taking them out of our country by the thousands.
 By the thousands.
 That's a tough job but they love to do it.
 They love our country.
 Sanctuary city policies aren't just wrong, they're immoral, and they're lethal, and they really are something that has to be stopped.
 They have to be stopped now.
 What's happening is a disgrace.
 Thankfully here in Iowa your great Republican governor, sometimes referred to as Governor Reynolds, signed a state-wide ban on sanctuary cities.
 Thank you Kim.
 That is why we need to elect more Republicans nationwide, to end sanctuary cities in all 50 states.
 Thank you Kim Reynolds.
 You know I endorsed her, so I want to take full credit for the job she has done.
 I endorsed her very early, right?
 Very early I endorsed her.
 I know talent.
 She's done a great job.
 Democrats stand for crime, corruption, and chaos.
 Republicans stand for law, order, and justice.
 It's true.
 We are finding the illegal game members, drug dealers, predators, and we are throwing them the hell out of our country, ideally.
 We don't want to put them in prison because you know what?
 We got to pay for them for the next 50 years, but sometimes we have to.
 If they're too dangerous we have no choice.
 Thanks to our tireless efforts to secure the border we have reduced illegal border crossings seven straight months in a row, and they're getting lower, and lower.
 Shockingly, as that wall gets longer, the crossings get less.
 Remember the Democrats?
 "You don't need a wall.
 You don't need a wall.
 You don't need it.
" Seven years they all voted for it, they just didn't have the ability to build it.
 You know it's not easy with land, and this, and that, and property, and rights.
 They couldn't figure it out but I can figure it out.
 The problem was we couldn't get the money, but we got all the money we need now.
 We have everything.
 We have everything.
 The last time, this last budget, they didn't really fight us on the wall.
 You know why?
 Because they learned it's a really bad issue for them.
 It's a really bad issue.
 But I made one mistake with the wall.
 I should have said, "We will never ever build a wall.
" They would have given me so much money to build a wall.
 That was my only … Because I used to go, "We will build the wall," right?
 That was a mistake.
 I should have said, "We will never ever build it.
 Under no circumstances," and they would have forced its building and I would have said, "Okay.
" By the way, in all due respect, you know who's going to pay for the wall, right?
 No, no, they play … The fake news plays.
 No, no, through remittance illegal aliens from Mexico are going to pay for the call.
 That's what it is.
 Remittance.
 100% because when I say something I mean it.
 I said I was going to build a wall.
 You think it's easy when you have a party that controls the House, you got to end that.
 You got to end that.
 They said they picked up the House in '18 but I didn't run in '18.
 You know the big difference when you run, '16 I ran, '18 I didn't run.
 They did, they picked up some seats.
 I didn't run, but I'm running this time and we've got to take back the House.
 Kevin McCarthy will be a great Speaker of the House.
 Kevin McCarthy will be a great Speaker, watch.
 But getting something built when you have a party that controls one of the three, getting it built is … Honestly I don't want to brag, nobody else could have done it.
 Nobody else could have done it.
 It's The Real Deal wall.
 It's the wall that border security wanted.
 Remember I thought I could just build concrete slabs?
 They didn't want that because you have to be able to see through.
 I said, "Oh come on.
" This is the expensive version.
 This is the best version.
 This is steel, and concrete, and rebar in between.
 It's really something.
 Did you see the other day where drug dealers got caught at the top?
 They couldn't get over.
 We had to get the fire department to get them down.
 They couldn't get over and they're like mountain climbers.
 They got used to climbing.
 They got caught because you know that panel?
 That's an anti-climb panel.
 It's very hot and very tough.
 It's a very hard panel to climb, the panel on top.
 Sometimes I'd say, "I'd rather do without that panel," because I'm a very visual person.
 They said, "Sir that's anti-climb panel.
" I said, "Oh it is?
 Okay, let's put it on.
 To hell with it.
" It's true.
 Anti-climb panel.
 The wall is the top of the line.
 That's what they wanted.
 Mostly 30 feet tall.
 That's very tall.
 That's maximum.
 It's really doing a big trick.
 A lot … Wherever we have it … 100 miles is all of a sudden a lot, but where you have that it's incredible.
 99.
9%, especially when we're watching it.
 We're watching the sections.
 Illegal crossings now are down 75% since last spring.
 The powerful border wall was starting to set.
 I mean pretty soon we'll be setting records in speed.
 It's going up very rapidly.
 Very rapidly.
 You're seeing it all over and it's going to be really something.
 Look, it would be nice if we didn't have to have it.
 It would be great, but we have to have it.
 They said, "Oh we could have drones.
" Oh what are you going to do with drones flying around?
 When people are going through your border with nowhere … They're going to have drones flying around.
 They know because they were all for it.
 They were all for it.
 Now all of a sudden they're against, but they want drones.
 Well we're going to have drones too but the drones are policing the wall.
 In terms of human trafficking, people don't even talk about it.
 Because of the internet, sadly, the worst in the history of our world.
 All over the world.
 Trafficking in women and children all over the world.
 All over the world.
 The worst it's ever been, but when we have this border it makes it very, very tough for them to come into the United States with women and with children stuffed in trunks in the back of a car.
 The Washington Democrats have never been more extreme.
 132 congressional Democrats have signed up for Bernie Sanders' government healthcare takeover bill.
 It's a takeover of your healthcare that would strip all of those 180,000 million great Americans of your private coverage.
 You want that.
 You got great deals.
 You're able to negotiate, you're able to keep your doctor, keep your area, keep your hospitals, keep everything that you wanted.
 Now they want to take it away.
 Report to an operating room when you have a cold, okay?
 In your local hospital.
 I don't think so.
 180,000 million people, but I'm not going to knock it because I want Bernie to bring it right up to the end and we'll debate it the day before the election.
 Okay?
 We are saving your healthcare while Socialist Democrats are trying to take away your healthcare.
 Sleepy Joe has no idea what he's even … He doesn't even know what he's talking about.
 He's so lost.
 Honestly, that poor guys is so lost.
 They talk healthcare, she said, "It's over for him.
" It was over for him, actually if you knew him, a long time ago.
 Now it's really over.
 We are making healthcare better and cheaper.
 We got rid of the individual mandate, the most unpopular thing, which essentially killed Obamacare.
 We are protecting people with pre-existing conditions and we always will, the Republican party.
 We're stopping surprise medical billing and making everything totally transparent.
 I signed it already.
 Everything now is going to transparencies, where hospitals, doctors, everybody has to tell you how much things are costing.
 Watch those prices come down.
 Right?
 Right?
 I have an expert on healthcare.
 He said transparency because it's a big deal.
 It's a big deal.
 Nobody else would have gotten it done, that I can tell you.
 Transparency is bigger than healthcare because you will see prices tumbling like you wouldn't believe.
 People go in for a blood test, they get charged $2,700.
 Down the road they get the same test for $57.
 The same exact test.
 Maybe it's better.
 Maybe it's better.
 It's crazy.
 When you have transparency it's all going to come.
 You watch.
 You watch.
 But this person, a real expert, said, "This is bigger than healthcare," and I got it done.
 Unfortunately it won't really start kicking in until after the election because it takes a period of time.
 They have certain statutory requirements, et cetera.
 Well you better let me win.
 Can you imagine?
 Can you imagine?
 I did transparency, I took the guts, I did transparency and then I'm going to watch as somebody else says, "Didn't he do a great job for transparency?
" You better let me win because I want the credit for that one.
 We're buying cheaper drugs from other countries and approving more generic drugs than ever, ever, ever before.
 We are defending your right to keep the doctor.
 We are defending your right to keep your plan.
 Remember Obama 28 times, "You can keep your doctor.
 You can keep your doctor"?
 28.
 "You can also keep your plan.
 You can keep it.
 You can keep it.
" 28 times he lied.
 We should impeach him.
 No, he got it on a lie.
 He got it on a lie, but we've run it much better.
 But essentially it's totally different because of individual mandate.
 Because that really took the guts out of it and we're running it much better.
 I had a choice, do we run it well or do we run it poorly?
 If we run it poorly everyone's going to blame me.
 If we run it well everyone's going to give him credit, especially the fakers back there right?
 But you know what?
 We got to run it well but we're coming up with a healthcare that if we win the House we will have the best healthcare of any country in the world, by far.
 We're fighting the lobbyists and we're fighting the special interest, in case you didn't notice.
 We are serving only you.
 Thanks to our bold reforms we're now offering health plans that are 60% cheaper than Obamacare.
 We're offering a lot of different things.
 We have just passed, recently, 10 months ago, Right to Try.
 I love Right to Try.
 You know what that is?
 That's people are terminally ill and they can't use medicine because … They've been trying to pass this, almost for 50 years.
 You can't use the medicine.
 We have the greatest doctors, labs, hospitals in the world.
 They come up with a medicine but it has to go through the FDA procedure, right?
 You can't do anything.
 You can't use it.
 They won't let you use it.
 Now I have you sign an agreement, you're not going to sue the United States, you're not going to this, your family, et cetera, et cetera.
 Very simple.
 And they can use it.
 You have no idea the results that are taking place.
 You have no idea.
 You have no idea the results.
 People's lives are being … For me it was simple.
 I said, "Wait a minute, you're worried about hurting somebody?
 These people are dying.
 They're terminally ill.
 They're admitting they're terminally ill and you won't let them use a drug that may work?
 Let the use the drug.
" And we're letting them use the drug and it's working in a lot of cases.
 We have transformed veterans healthcare, including VA Choice.
 The best.
 You know I think I'm a totally brilliant human being.
 I think I'm the smartest person, so I came up with a plan.
 I'll never forget, I was in New Hampshire, I came up with this idea because everybody kept coming up to me and saying, "Sir it's really terrible what's happening with healthcare.
 We're waiting in line for two weeks, for four weeks, for seven weeks.
" Honestly people were waiting in line, they weren't very sick, they were terminally ill, truthfully, before they saw a doctor.
 By the time they got to the doctor.
 So I came up with this incredible plan.
 Only I could think of this.
 I said, "Here's what you do … Here's what you do, if somebody can't get a doctor quickly," because we have great doctors at the VA.
 They don't get enough credit.
 "If you can't get to a doctor quickly you go outside, you go locally, you get a doctor, we pay the bill, you get yourself all better.
" Right?
 So I went back.
 I went back and I told my people, "Do you have any idea how smart I am?
 Listen to this plan I have.
" They said, "Actually sir we've known about that plan for 52 years we just couldn't get it approved.
" So I said, "Oh that's too bad, I thought it was brilliant," but what I am good at is getting things approved and I got it approved.
 People are using it and it's great.
 I know the people of Iowa don't care about this but we are making substantial investments in rural healthcare.
 We are combating the opioid epidemic.
 Drug overdose deaths have declined for the first time in nearly 31 years.
 That's a great thing.
 Our great first lady is helping us with that.
 That is such a big thing for Melania.
 Big, big thing.
 She is really involved.
 We will never let the Democrats give away your healthcare to illegal immigrants, especially when we say, "Come in.
 Come in, we'll give you healthcare.
" It's one thing they come in and it's a rough situation because we all have hearts but when people are saying, like in California this wacky governor he says, "Come in, we're going to give you healthcare.
 We're going to give you free education.
 We're going to give you everything.
 We're going to give you a beautiful Rolls-Royce.
" See to show you how fake they are one of the newscasters said, "Donald Trump said that the governor of California promised a Rolls-Royce to illegal immigrants.
 He didn't promise them.
 This was a lie and a misrepresentation by President Trump.
" They can't take a little humor.
 They can't take it.
 These people are sick.
 They're sick.
 No.
 They're sick people.
 Them and Shifty Schiff is a very sick person.
 He lies awake at night shifting and turning, Shifty.
 Shifting and turning in his bed, sweating like a dog.
 "How am I going to get him?
 He didn't do anything wrong, how am I going to get him?
" Oh what a sick guy he is.
 Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion.
 Ripping babies straight from the mother's womb.
 Right up until the moment of birth.
 That is why I have asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion, Socialism, and blatant corruption.
 No matter how you cut it, that's what it is.
 The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, and the late great Abraham Lincoln.
 You know that, right?
 Abraham Lincoln.
 Honest Abe.
 Remember I always said, "I can be more presidential than any other past president, other than perhaps Abraham Lincoln when he's wearing the hat," right?
 Because it's easy to be presidential but only have about three people in front of me.
 Be a, "Good evening ladies and gentlemen.
 Is everything okay in Iowa?
 Oh I see, the world is ripping you off.
 Well there's not a thing I can do about that.
 Thank you.
 Good night everybody.
 Good night.
" No, we got to do it the right way.
 Republicans … And by the way, can I be honest?
 Doing this takes far more talent than doing that.
 Doing that is very easy.
 This is not easy.
 Especially when you just left Michigan, and you just left other places, and you got maniacs doing a number on you all the time for three years.
 You got the maniacs for three years.
 I think before I came down the escalator with our future first lady I think really they were doing it then.
 They started even before I came down on the escalator.
 These people are maniacs, so you have all that.
 So you're fighting that and you're doing farm bills.
 We got your farm bill approved by the way.
 We got your farm bill approved.
 I don't even mention that because that's massive by any other standard, but it's peanuts compared to the USMCA and the China deal, right?
 So I don't even mention it.
 Anyway, Republicans are fighting for citizens from every background and from every race, religion, color, and creed.
 It's true.
 Our numbers with African American workers, people, are through the roof.
 Are through the roof because … Remember I used to say, "What do you have to lose?
" I'd read the down the worst on crime, the worst on education.
 They got this, they got that, they got 10 different things, all horrible.
 One day I'm in front of this tremendous group of people and I'm reading this list, African American, they have the highest crime rate, they have the highest this, they have the worst education, they have the worst schools, they have the worst … I said, "Stay with me," because they were with the Democrats for a hundred years, more.
 I said, "Stay with me.
 What the hell do you have to lose?
" You know what?
 You know what?
 Remember that?
 Now they have the best employment and unemployment numbers, they have the best poverty numbers, they have numbers that nobody would believe.
 They're doing so great.
 It's so great to see it.
 It's incredible.
 Youth unemployment, African American youth.
 It's been great.
 We're asking all Americans to join our incredible movement.
 We are a big tent and a big party with big, bold, beautiful ideas for the future.
 We're what the country was based on originally.
 It was called greatness.
 It was called greatness.
 During National School Choice Week, School Choice everybody, we continue our fight to rescue children trapped in failing government schools.
 Iowa became one of the first states to pass School Choice.
 That was over 10 years ago.
 Now Governor Reynolds, Senator Ernst, Senator Grassley, and more than 100 members of Congress are supporting our plan to give School Choice to every child in America who needs it.
 It's a great plan.
 To give former prisoners a second chance at life we passed criminal justice reform.
 Think of that.
 Think of that.
 We had a lot of great Conservatives who wanted it, we had Liberals who wanted it.
 They couldn't get it passed.
 President Obama couldn't even come close.
 He didn't try too hard.
 He talked like, "Oh I'll try.
" To uphold the rule of law we have confirmed 191 federal judges, a record, who will interpret The Constitution as one.
 And two great Supreme Court justices, by the way.
 As part as … Right?
 Two great ones.
 As part of my commitment to rebuild our military we secured an $8.
5 million facility to support our Iowa Guardsmen at Camp Dodge, right here in Des Moines, Iowa.
 Right here, Camp Dodge.
 Camp Dodge everybody.
 We take care of Camp Dodge.
 I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem.
 We recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.
 Yesterday we just released a historic new plan for peace.
 We're going to see if we can get that done.
 It's one of the toughest deals of all.
 One of the toughest deals but we have a shot at it.
 For years you watched as your politicians apologized for our country.
 They apologized.
 They would say, "I'm sorry.
" Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Iowa.
 We are standing up for Iowa.
 At stake in our present battle is the survival, frankly, of our nation.
 Look, I can make this speech really short.
 All I have to do is say, "Hello Iowa, you have no choice.
 You have to vote for me.
 Otherwise everything that you've built in your entire life will be gone.
 Goodbye Iowa, have a good time.
" Instead I work my ass off up here, okay?
 Yeah.
 True.
 Do you think this is easy?
 It's a little hot in this room.
 This room wasn't designed for this many people.
 If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of Americans have fought and died for then we must devote everything we have toward victory in November of 2020.
 We have to.
 By the way, for those beautiful farmers that want to leave your small farms or businesses to your children … Because of our great tax bill, the biggest tax cut in the history of our country, the biggest that you benefit by.
 Because of that there is no death tax or inheritance tax, as they call it.
 So I always say, "If you love your children that's a great thing.
 If you don't love your children don't leave it to them and that particular tax won't matter," but if you love … Is there anybody here that does not love your children?
 Is there anybody here who loves your children?
 Well it's Iowa.
 It's Iowa.
 You love your children.
 You know you have no tax to pay, you leave your .
.
.
 No, it's great.
 So when you're looking down at your children you're saying, "Oh did you get lucky?
 Did you get lucky?
 Look at them, they're enjoying life.
" But only this way can we save the America we love and drain the Washington swamp once and for all.
 That swamp is bad.
 That swamp is bad.
 I had no idea it was going to be this sick and this degenerated.
 It's a degenerate swamp.
 I had no idea.
 When I came out, I said, "We're going to drain this swamp.
" I had no idea that the swamp was that evil, but we're winning.
 We're winning because we're in The White House.
 We're winning.
 With your help we will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependents to independents, and poverty to prosperity.
 That's what's happening all over our country.
 Together we will elect a Republican Congress to create a fair, safe, sane, and lawful system of immigration.
 It's already happening.
 We will continue to enact new trade deals that result in more products made, raised, farmed, and grown right here in the USA.
 We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine.
 Finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America in less than 10 years.
 We've already started.
 Should have been started in the last administration.
 Incredible.
 Should have been started earlier, but we started.
 In less than 10 years, the AIDS epidemic will be eradicated, will be gone.
 Who would have thought that was possible?
 When they came in and told me that a couple of years ago, I said, "Really?
 Nobody knows that.
" Incredible the strides that we've made.
 We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms.
 In the state of Virginia they want to take your guns away, you believe it?
 Virginia, I love Virginia.
 Of all states, they want to take your guns away.
 The Democrats.
 Not going to happen.
 Above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America.
 We are one great America.
 We support, protect, and defend the constitution of the United States.
 We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement.
 We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.
 We believe that family and faith, not government bureaucracy, are the true American way, not government bureaucracy.
 We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.
 And we live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust.
 We live by those words, in God we trust.
 From Cambridge, good old Cambridge.
 Who's from Cambridge here please?
 Cambridge.
 What the hell do I mention it for when there's two people here?
 Can I say it anyway?
 I'll say it anyway.
 Good place Cambridge.
 Good, he said it's amazing.
 Well, from Cambridge to Council Bluffs, from Cedar Rapids where I made my last speech prior to the election.
 What a place, 32,000 people.
 I said, "I'm going to win tomorrow.
" To Rock Rapids, from Melbourne to Moorhead, and from Davenport to right here in Des Moines, Iowa.
 We stand on the shoulders of true red blooded American heroes.
 This great state was founded by tough, tough, tough frontier men.
 These are tough people.
 Let's see how big and how tough.
 They're tough.
 Anybody like to join ICE?
 You want to join ICE?
 He says, "No thank you.
" And strong pioneer women who defied the dangers to carve out a life and a beautiful home with great families and great neighbors.
 They tamed the wilderness, braved the elements, tilled the soil, planted the fields and help make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth and we are making it greater and greater every single day.
 Proud citizens like you helped to build this country and together we are taking back our country.
 We are returning power to you, the American people, where it has always belonged.
 It's coming back to you, you see that.
 With your help, your devotion and your drive we are going to keep on working and we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
 We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God.
 America is thriving like never before and ladies and gentlemen, and especially the great ladies and gentlemen of Iowa, the best is yet to come.
 True, true.
 Because together we will make America wealthy again.
 We will make America strong again.
 We will make America proud again.
 We will make America safe again and we will make America great again.
 Thank you, Iowa.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.

 Thank you everybody.
 Thank you and Vice President Mike Pence, thank you very much.
 Incredible.
 And, hello to Fayetteville.
 Hello, Fayetteville.
 It's great to be here in North Carolina's ninth congressional district with the hardworking patriots who believe in faith, family, God and country.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Tomorrow you'll head to the polls to elect a congressman who always puts America first, Dan Bishop.
 I've just come from a meeting with North Carolina officials representing communities hit by Hurricane Dorian and I expressed the unwavering solidarity of the American people, we are behind you 100%.
 100%.
 The prayers of our entire nation are with the citizens of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and everyone else that was in the storms path, and I will say I was called by the government of The Bahamas and we're helping with The Bahamas.
 They were hit so hard.
 They were hit so hard.
 Who would believe it?
 We pledged the full support of the federal government through every step of the rebuilding process.
 And I will say, North Carolina in our country probably got hit the hardest.
 That was a little bit of a surprise, but I know one thing about North Carolina.
 You can take it and you'll build it quickly and you'll build it beautifully.
 And, you'll be back sooner then anybody ever thought and it'll be better then ever.
 Right?
 No doubt about it.
 I also want to give a special recognition to the many non-governmental organizations doing so much to help people recover from Dorian, in particular, Franklin Graham.
 He's a wonderful guy.
 He's got an organization, Samaritan's Purse, based right here in North Carolina and the work that Franklin and his family and all of those that are with Franklin Graham we want to thank them.
 Special, great people.
 Great People.
 Thank you Franklin.
 Thank you.
 Incredible job.
 He does such a great job.
 All over, whenever there's a problem you see Samaritan's Purse and Franklin and his people.
 We love the people of this state and we will never ever leave your side.
 North Carolina will truly recover so fast.
 I know you people so well.
 Let's not even talk about it.
 Let's not even talk about it.
 We're here tonight to discuss the extraordinary progress we're making as a nation and how to ensure this amazing resurgence keeps on going and going strong.
 In just over two years, we've taken this big beautiful ship and it's being turned around very quickly.
 Nobody thought this would happen.
 You know we won the greatest election, certainly one of them, but maybe the greatest, but we won… let's say one of the greatest, this way I won't be criticized.
 They'll say, "You know, George Washington had a great election too.
" The fake news right.
 The fake news.
 But, we won one of the greatest elections in history and because of that, and you would be in big trouble if we didn't, I can tell you that.
 You'd be… Instead of going up we were heading in the wrong direction.
 We have the number one economy anywhere in the world.
 And every time I meet a foreign leader, almost every time, they say, "Congratulations on what you've done with the economy.
" I said, "I didn't do it.
 I just set a certain path.
 The people of the United States did it.
" Number one anywhere in the world.
 And they tried to do the recession thing.
 You know, they tried the Russia thing.
 That didn't work.
 They tried many other things.
 I always say, "The media and their partner, the Democrats.
" I wouldn't mind fighting the Democrats, but we really have to look at it as a two-some.
 It's the media and the Democrats.
 It's one and the same.
 We're rebuilding our military, defending our sovereignty and reclaiming our dignity as a nation.
 America is winning again and America is respected again.
 They respect America.
 By the way, I have about 10 women in the front row and you come from North Carolina and they travel all over the place.
 Hold up your hands.
 These are great women.
 I see them so much, and I must say they have other things to do.
 They look rich as hell to me, I don't know.
 How many is this?
 How many rallies have you come too?
 They can't count.
 They said all of them except for two.
 That's a lot of rallies and it all emanates from this area.
 That's so great.
 Well, at least you won't have to travel so far for this one, right?
 Thank you very much for being here.
 We really appreciate it.
 Well, we appreciate it.
 We appreciate it.
 Thank you.
 Really incredible people.
 But you know, we've created six million new jobs since election day and I couldn't say that in my initial rallies because nobody would have believed it.
 Six million new jobs.
 More Americans are working today than ever before in the history of our country.
 Almost 160 million Americans, nobody would have thought that was possible.
 We wouldn't have been able to say it actually.
 We've now had 13 straight months of wage gains of at least 3%, so the people that work so hard… You remember I used to say during the rallies before we won, people worked two jobs, three jobs and they made less money then they made 21 years before and now wages are going up, the economy is doing great and jobs have never been better.
 So importantly, more than 70 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps.
 Nearly 600,000 Americans entered the labor force last month alone.
 Think of that.
 And the unemployment rate for African-Americans just reached another brand new, yesterday, all time low in the history of our country.
 How do you lose that debate?
 Remember I used to say, "Why do you have to lose?
" Well, now you have the best unemployment numbers, employment and unemployment numbers, that you've ever had as African-Americans, as Asian-Americans, as Hispanic-Americans.
 The best numbers we've ever had, and by the way, African-American youth unemployment has also reached the lowest level ever recorded in history.
 And, the labor force participation rate for women is at the highest level now in 15 years, and soon will be 35 years, and soon, I promise, will probably end up being better than ever.
 I can tell you the unemployment numbers for women are the best they've been now in 72 years.
 So, I always say kiddingly, "I'm sorry I didn't make it historic," but you know what?
 It's going to be historic very soon.
 It'll be historic very soon.
 And, here in North Carolina, over 230,000 more people now have jobs and small business formation has skyrocketed by more than 25%.
 Amazing.
 But, the radical democrats want to dismantle, demolish, and destroy everything that you've gained, and they will do it, and it won't take that long.
 And, that's why we need Dan Bishop and Greg Murphy.
 We need them.
 We need them going down.
 We need them going down to congress and helping.
 But, they can do it.
 It's also why we need four more years.
 It has to… See, it's like a plant.
 We've changed things, right?
 Keep America Great.
 We've changed things, but it's gotta grow.
 It's gotta develop those roots.
 And, once it does, it's going to be very hard for them to destroy what we've done.
 Very hard.
 And, that's really why I consider this election… Look, we had a very, very special day in 2016.
 It was a very special day.
 Very special day.
 It was an incredible day, an incredible month, an incredible year, and I don't know that you can ever compare anything to it.
 But, I can say this, 2020 is essentially just as important, because they'll try and take it away.
 Whether it has to do with religion.
 Our evangelicals are here tonight, and they're all over the place.
 And, what we've done for them, and for religion, is so important.
 You know, the other side, I don't think they're big believers… They're not big believers in religion.
 That I can tell you.
 You listen to some of them.
 They're trying, and they're trying put out little statements.
 They're not working too well.
 Little statements that are a little bit, sort of, not too good, huh?
 What is the word we want to use?
 Yeah, a little… Nah.
 Nah.
 They're pushing a little hard, and it's not working.
 To stop the far left, you must vote in tomorrow's special election.
 So important.
 Or, get your votes in early.
 I think a lot of… Who voted early for Dan Bishop?
 Good.
 Well, that's good, but the big thing is tomorrow.
 Tomorrow is the election, and you'll get out.
 To protect your family, you must defeat open borders.
 And, you have Democrat named Dan McCready, and he wants open borders.
 He wants sanctuary cities.
 He's not going to protect your Second Amendment.
 He's doing nothing on your Sec… You know, North Carolina's a very big Second Amendment state.
 And, Dan Bishop, Greg Murphy, these guys, they're going to protect your Second Amendment.
 But, one of the biggest issues in this election is, in fact, sanctuary cities.
 McCready supports sanctuary city policies that force prisons and jails to release criminal aliens directly into your neighborhoods.
 Get out.
 Go ahead.
 Go into the neighborhood.
 Go into… What's your neighborhood.
 Where do you… What?
 Rutherford County!
 Okay.
 So, how do you feel about having them released, hardened, horrible criminals into Rutherford County?
 I don't think so.
 But, your whole state… Honestly… Can I be honest?
 It's crazy what's happening.
 This whole thing with sanctuary cities, and you go to California, which is so many sanctuary cities, they don't know what's happening out there.
 You have people that want to get ride of those sanctuary cities, they just aren't able to do it with the people that get elected.
 A lot of illegal voting going on out there, by the way, a lot of illegal voting.
 In August, McCready said it was "the right call to set illegal alien criminals loose in the great state…" I'm using the words great state.
 He doesn't.
 "… Of North Carolina.
" With the support and encouragement of McCready, sanctuary jurisdictions in North Carolina have released thousands of dangerous criminal aliens into your communities, and you see it.
 You see it.
 The charges against these freed criminals includes sexual assault, robbery, drug crimes, kidnapping, and homicide.
 Murder.
 Why would you do it?
 Why would you do it?
 What is it?
 Explain it.
 Just recently, Mecklenburg County set free an illegal alien charged with first-degree rape and crimes against a child.
 Support for sanctuary cities is disloyalty to American citizens, and McCready wants sanctuary cities with all of their protections for people that are serious criminals.
 Tomorrow is your chance to send a clear message to the America-hating left, and it's gotta be.
 And, by the way, we're building that wall, and it's going up very big.
 Very big.
 And, you think it's easy to get money when you have the entire Democrat party… And, they control the House, and we want to change that.
 We want to flip the house.
 We'll get so much.
 It'll be amazing what we can do for our country.
 We don't want dangerous criminal aliens roaming free in North Carolina.
 We want to take care of it.
 This state should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens.
 Our great Republican candidate, Dan Bishop, will fight with everything he has to stop sanctuary cities and defend the people of this great state.
 Dan, come on up.
 Dan Bishop, everyone.
 Get out and vote.
 Come on up, Dan.
 We need a doctor.
 A doctor in the house, please.
 A doctor, please.
 Doctor in the house.
 Thank you.
 Take your time, please.
 Take your time.
 We've got plenty of time.
 Thank you.
 Take your time.
 Thank you, Doctor.
 Take your time.
 People have been standing outside for two days to get in, so this happens.
 Thank you.
 Thank you, Doctor.
 Doing better?
 Good.
 That's good.
 That's good.
 That's great.
 That's really great.
 Thank you!
 Thank you, sir.
 Thank you.
 That's really great.
 Thank you very much.
 I guess Dan's speech wasn't so good.
 What do you think?
 That's great.
 Thank you very much.
 Great job.
 Thank you, Doctor.
 Thank you, everybody.
 Thank you, law enforcement.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you.
 Thank you, Dan.
 That was a good job.
 That was a good job.
 He means it, too.
 He's great.
 Go out and vote tomorrow for Dan Bishop, please.
 So, we've had great support over the last six months in particular from a man who happens to be your senator right now, and we need him to keep going, because he has been fantastic.
 And, I believe he's here tonight.
 I just came in.
 The weather wasn't so great to be traveling today, and they said, "Maybe we could skip North Carolina today, sir.
" So, I said, "No, thank you.
" I said, "No, thank you.
" Can you imagine?
 And, by the way, I have to say, we have a big crowd in here, right?
 You haven't seen outside.
 Thousands and thousands of people who couldn't get in.
 And, when people wait two or three days to come in and especially these first rows, I just want to tell you we really thank you.
 Incredible.
 But, Thom Tillis has really worked with us over the last period of time.
 He's recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to sue sanctuary cities.
 That's a big deal.
 And hold them accountable for the lives that they've shattered.
 But, to pass the bill, we need more Republicans.
 Tomorrow there is another crucial special election, and we have a fantastic guy running in that one, too, Republican Greg Murphy.
 It looks like he's in good shape, but you've got to get it out.
 So, I want to introduce Thom Tillis, and I want to introduce Greg Murphy.
 I want to thank you both.
 Thank you.
 Thank you, Thom, and thank you, Greg.
 So, Greg Murphy is looking to, like Dan, cut your taxes, defend your Second Amendment, support our policies, really, really support our military and our veterans.
 We have rebuilt our military.
 Greg Murphy, come on up for a second here.
 Greg Murphy.
 Come up.
 Come up, Greg.
 Come on up, Greg.
 Come on up, Greg.
 Just for a second.
 Then, we'll get back to business.
 We've got to do this, and I don't know.
 He's been a great champ Thank you, Greg.
 Come.
 Please.
 Good luck tomorrow, Greg.
 Get out there and vote for those two guys.
 They're terrific.
 We're thrilled to be joined tonight by many more terrific Republican leaders.
 A man who's really been stepping up to the front.
 He defended Justice Kavanaugh when he was treated so badly.
 I've never seen anything like the treatment that Justice Kavanaugh received.
 And, everybody respects him, and everybody likes him.
 And, I like him, and we used to fight like hell, right?
 But, we don't fight anymore.
 We like each other a lot, and he's a special man.
 And, he's become a special friend.
 Senator Lindsay Graham.
 Another man who is a fighter… I guess we're all fighters.
 You have to be a fighter or you're not going to be here very long.
 I can tell you that.
 We've got to fight them more than anybody else.
 But, a man who's done an incredible job in Washington, took over a rough situation, and he's become a real leader, and that's Republican Leader, Kevin McCarthy.
 Kevin.
 Kevin's working so hard for so many different people.
 He wants to see Dan and Greg win so badly.
 Thank you for being here.
 Appreciate it, Leader.
 Representative David Rouzer.
 David, thank you.
 David Rouzer.
 He's done a fantastic job.
 Our lieutenant governor who is going to be, I think, a highly competitive candidate for a very important race, Dan Forest.
 Thank you, Dan.
 Thank you very much, Dan.
 We also have North Carolina Republican Party Chair, Michael Whatley.
 What a job you've done.
 And, we have a man from North Carolina who loves this state.
 He fights so hard.
 He doesn't know what it is not to fight.
 You know who I'm talking about?
 They got it, Mark.
 You're all screaming, "Mark Meadows.
" That's right.
 He's great.
 So many.
 Jim Jordan, Andy Biggs, Gaetz, and… I just got so… By the way, Devin Nunez.
 Devin Nunez.
 How about Devin?
 He was out there when it wasn't in vogue to be saying that Comey was a stone cold liar and leaker.
 But, he knew it all the time, Devin Nunez.
 But, Mark Meadows is pretty incredible, and do they love… … but Mark Meadows has been incredible, and do they love him in your state.
 Do they love Mark Meadows.
 Thank you Mark.
 Also a friend of mine who's been with us from the beginning, he's not a politician but he might as well be one.
 He loves us.
 He loves this party and he loves your state, lives here, Louis DeJoy.
 One of the most successful people.
 Thank you, Louis and your wife is… doing a great job Louis.
 And a very special thanks to my son, Don Junior and Kimberly.
 Great job.
 Did Don Junior give a good speech?
 I heard that.
 They all said, "He was on fire.
" Well, he's fighting.
 He loves this country.
 My son loves this country.
 My family loves this country, and two people, from your state, that the first lady, before she was first lady, she said, "You know, there are two people that are unbelievable.
 You've got to watch them.
" I said, "I'm not interested.
 I'm too busy.
" "No, no, no.
 You have to watch them.
 They're so great, they're so smart.
 They love the country, they love you.
" Diamond and Silk.
 They are incredible.
 Incredible people.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you, what a job, and they're doing very well I have to tell you that.
 Our shared Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American.
 And by the way, so is Doug Collins, and so John Ratcliffe.
 Thank you fellows.
 Thank you.
 Two incredible fighters also.
 For decades our leaders put global interest and special interest ahead of your interest.
 You know that better than anybody, and this state knows it better than anybody.
 They traded away your factories, sold your future, squandered your tax dollars, sacrificed your security, and bogged us down in one foreign debacle after another.
 But all of that is changed.
 We're respected again.
 They're all saying, "Oh, gee.
 I hope he doesn't do this or that.
" They've taken advantage of us for years, and I have to say sadly, in many cases it's our allies that took the greatest advantage of this country.
 But now you finally have a president who understands that I'm not supposed to be the president of the world, I'm supposed to be the President of the United States of America.
 To bring back our jobs for other countries, we passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history.
 We've cut a record number of job killing regulations.
 No president, no longer how long they serve, has gotten anywhere even close to what we've done with regulations, and that's one of the reasons our economy is so good.
 And we have tremendous potential upward, and China wants to talk.
 They want to talk.
 China's lost three million jobs, thousands of companies are leaving China, the supply chain is crumbling because they can't pay the tariffs, and our country has taken over things that you would've never thought.
 As an example, hundreds of billions of dollars have been and are coming into our country in the form of tariffs, and China is eating the cost, which the fake news doesn't want to tell you.
 And out of the tens of billions of dollars that we've taken in, because of the fact that our great American patriot farmers have been targeted by China, they've been targeted, because they know the farmer is like Trump.
 I love the farmers.
 So they targeted the farmers, and I said to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of Agriculture, "Sonny, how much was it, last year and the year before?
 Tell me.
" It was $12 billion and it was $16 billion, and out of the tariffs that we've taken in, we gave to our farmers for distribution, hopefully very good distribution, hopefully very even distribution, we've given them $28 billion so that they're whole.
 So that they're whole.
 Nobody would ever do that.
 Nobody would ever do that, I can tell you that right now, and our farmers know we have to fight.
 I see it all the time, where some of the networks that are crazy, they have a group of farmers, in some cases they have groups of women, they say, "What do you think of President Trump?
" "We like him a lot.
 We're with him all the way.
" And they want to turn off the cameras.
 They go crazy, but with the farmers you know that.
 You ever see that?
 The 10 women.
 "What do you think of President Trump?
" "We love him!
" Boy would I like to put you on television, I'll tell you right now, and they can't turn off those cameras fast enough, but they say to the farmers, "You voted for President Trump, are you happy?
" And ever one of them said, "He did things that no ones ever done before.
" Who would think of getting 12 billion plus 16 million, $28 billion, because they've been targeted.
 That's the amount I asked Sonny, I said Sonny, "What's the amount they've took our of our farmers?
" "It was 16 billion and the year before 12.
" And said Sonny, "We got to make that up," and we made that up.
 Who would do that?
 Nobody would do that.
 First of all, nobody else ever had tens of billions of dollars pouring in from China because it's always been the other way around.
 China has taken advantage of our country for decades, decades.
 And I guarantee you one thing, none of these Democrats, whether it's Pocahontas or Sleepy Joe, none of them would be able to do a thing about it, and nobody would ever think of helping the farmers who have been targeted by China.
 China made $500 billion over the last number of years, on a yearly basis, they steal our intellectual property.
 So many other things.
 So now it's just different, and now it's working the other way, and tariffs are a beautiful thing when you know how to use them, they're a beautiful thing.
 And I want China to do well, and I hope they do well, but they've had now the worst year in 57 years.
 I wonder why?
 I wonder why?
 And hopefully it'll all work out.
 We'll see.
 We're going to be talking next week.
 We're talking now.
 They're going to be coming to the United States in two or three weeks, and we'll see what happens, but unless we're going to make a good deal or a fair deal for our country, let's face it, we can not go back to a situation.
 We're giving hundreds of billions of dollars to China becomes standard fare.
 Not going to happen, we can't do it, and we have many other countries also, but we'll worry about them a little bit later.
 Plenty of others, they've taken advantage of our country like you wouldn't believe, and I've been saying this for many years.
 I was saying this when I was a private citizen.
 They take our jobs, they make our product, they sell the product into our country with no tax, no nothing.
 So we end up with closed factories, no jobs, no taxes, no nothing, and these other countries gain.
 As an example, Mexico, I must say they've really helped us at the border.
 The Democrats will not doing anything about these horrible open loopholes, which would be so good.
 So we're doing it a different way, and Mexico is now patrolling with 27,000 troops.
 They've never had two troops steward our border, and you saw the numbers today were down approximately 57%.
 But our country could fix it so easy if the Democrats would sit with me for 15 minutes, but they don't want to do that because they want to have open borders.
 They want to have drugs pouring into our country.
 You have to have a wall and you have to stop it, and when you look at what's happening with human trafficking, and it's mostly women, they traffic in women and they pour through our borders.
 Well, every inch of wall that we put up is vital and we're putting up miles and miles, and we intend by next year, at the end of the year, to have anywhere between 400 and 500 miles of wall built, and this is serious wall.
 This is the real deal.
 Serious wall.
 And I want to thank our new Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper, for the job he's done and he views it really as a national security threat, and you have to.
 What can be much more threatening that people that want to pour across our borders, and we have the worst walls, we have the weakest walls in the history of any country?
 You can't do anything to stop them.
 You have program, catch and release.
 You catch them and then you have to release them, and they're suppose to come back to court in the next three, four, fix, six years, and nobody shows up, and Democrats don't want to fix it.
 So we're stopping them, so we don't even have to worry about court.
 We ended the last administrations cruel war on American energy.
 The United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world.
 And for all of these crazy people, but they're not so crazy, they know what they're doing, that talk about Russia, Russia, Russia.
 Russia's not too happy about that.
 Their primary source of income is oil and gas, and now we're bigger than Russia, bigger than Saudi Arabia.
 We're bigger than everybody, and we're doing great.
 So they're not exactly happy.
 The Russian Hoax, was a pure hoax, you saw that with Comey the other day.
 Yet every leading Democrat running for president pledges to ban the energy that drives our economy, and wage an under… If you look at what's going on your way of life is under assault by these people.
 I mean, I go out and sometimes I'll get these huge audiences, and I wish we could've gotten a large arena than this.
 We tried.
 I was even willing to stand out in the rain and get my hair soaking wet, but they said it was a little bit out of your district, and I said, "I don't know if it looks good being out of your district.
" But I was willing to do it, I would've taken it.
 I would have been very proud to have done it.
 It would've shown it's my real hair at least.
 It wouldn't be pretty, but it's my hair.
 May not be great, but I will say it's better than most of my friends who are the same age.
 A lot better.
 A lot!
 But we had a different location, as you all know, and we said, "Let's do this one.
 It's bigger.
" And we put screens outside for all of the people.
 We have screens and loud speakers and everything.
 It's really amazing what's going on out there, but after years of building up there countries, we are finally building up our country, that's the bottom line.
 The last administration, with Biden and Obama at the helm, they tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals that ever been negotiated, the Transpacific Partnership.
 You could've kissed many of your industries goodbye.
 TPP would've gutted the American auto industry.
 It would've been even worse than NAFTA, and we know how bad NAFTA was.
 All you have to do, is even to this day, look around at all those empty plants where people moved down and companies moved down to Mexico.
 Not under the USMCA.
 We got to get Nancy Pelosi to put it in for a vote, make it bipartisan.
 She'll have tremendous Democrat support.
 The farmers want it, the unions want it, the manufacturers want it, and by the way, 600,000 manufacturing jobs in this country, remember?
 You would need a magic wand.
 You can't do that anymore.
 Well, we did it, but we've got to get USMCA put up for a vote by the Democrats.
 But in my first week in office I proudly withdrew from that job destroying TPP catastrophe, and we're replacing one of the worst trade deals ever made by any country.
 You can go back as far as you want, NAFTA, the disaster of NAFTA.
 So whatever you do, start talking to your people, we need a vote on the USMCA.
 That's United States, Mexico, and Canada, and they've already voted.
 They want it and we want it, and it's great for the farmers.
 It's great for everybody.
 We're also aggressively combating a problem that you have in North Carolina, problem that we have in almost all states, the opioid epidemic.
 Last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths in nearly 31 years.
 At the center of the American drug crisis is the border crisis.
 Criminal cartel smuggle vast quantities of lethal narcotics across our souther border, including heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl.
 100,000 people a year die from what comes across our souther border, and we can get the Democrats to help us in sealing it even tighter.
 We got to get them.
 We got to get them.
 We got to get them.
 So if you want to stop the drug smugglers, the human traffickers, the viscous MS13 gang members, and by the way thank you to ICE.
 These people go into those nests, we call them nets.
 These are vicious, vicious people.
 We got into the nests with our ICE people, and for them it's another day at the office.
 There aren't too many people in this room that want to do it for a living.
 Let me see.
 That guy would.
 Maybe him, maybe her, right?
 Maybe her.
 But it's a rough job and they get so little praise for the job that they do.
 So dangerous.
 These are many killers in those gangs, and we're taking them out of our country by the thousands, MS13.
 And as you know, Democrats even want to give free healthcare to illegal immigrants.
 As long as I'm your president I will never, ever let Democrats take away your healthcare, and give it away free to people that have entered our country illegally.
 We can't do that.
 It's a tremendous incentive to come in.
 Democrats also want to bring in unlimited numbers of foreign refugees from overseas, all at the expense of supporting their own communities.
 Republicans, no matter what you do, where you are, we want people to obey our laws.
 You want people that are going to help our country.
 The Democrat party has never been farther outside of the mainstream.
 Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of healthcare that would raid Medicare, force private doctors out of medicine, and lead to the rationing of life saving treatments.
 And they want to take away your private healthcare, your private insurance.
 180 million people will lose with what they want to do.
 It's a disaster.
 It's like, did you ever really feel where you don't even have to treat people nicely?
 You don't have any choice, you have to vote for me.
 I can leave right now.
 I can say, "North Carolina, I've had it with you.
 I'm leaving right now.
" And you know what?
 You got to go out and vote.
 What are you going to do?
 Put one of these crazy people running our country again?
 But it's never been so far left.
 I told a story the other day about a business man I saw, one of the biggest in the country.
 You probably know his name.
 He's hated me for 20 years, and I've hated him also.
 Okay?
 Now they're going to go out tomorrow, "Breaking news, Donald Trump hates people.
" You're sort of right about that.
 I never liked this guy, and I see him in the White House, and I say, "What are you doing here?
" And he goes, "Mr.
 President.
" See now he calls me Mr.
 President.
 He used to call me something else.
 "Mr.
 President, I'm fighting for your victory.
" I said, "You got to be kidding.
" He goes, "Honestly, you're doing a great job, but also if this radical left gets in they're going to take away everything, and they're going to destroy our country.
" And for the first time I like this guy.
 My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you.
 Remember President Obama?
 28 times, remember 28 times, they counted them and there's much more than that I would imagine, that you can choose your plan, you can choose your doctor.
 It didn't work out that way, did it?
 Obamacare, and we're keeping Obamacare alive.
 We got rid of the individual mandate, the worst part of Obamacare.
 We're keeping it and running it as well as it can, but the premiums are too high.
 The deductibles are through the roof.
 It's ridiculous, and we're coming up with Lindsey Graham and all of the folks, we're coming up with a great healthcare plan that if we take back to the house.
 That's why Dan and Greg, if we take back the House, if we keep the Senate, and maybe even increase it a little bit, wouldn't be bad, and on the assumption we keep the presidency, you're going to have great healthcare.
 Thank you.
 We almost had it.
 We had a man campaigning for eight years to knock out Obamacare, and when he voted it didn't work out that way, did it?
 We had it, and we would have had it, but we're going to end up actually with a better plan.
 Sometimes through adversity things work out better.
 We're going to end up with a better plan, you watch.
 We'll always protect patients with pre-existing conditions also.
 Always, yep, my word.
 Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 51 years.
 Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term abortion.
 Ripping babies straight from the mother's womb, right up to the moment of birth, and if you look at the governor of Virginia, he was even talking about essentially you would say an execution.
 He was talking after the baby is born, the doctor will talk to the mother and they'll make the decision as to whether or not that baby lives.
 This is a radical Democrat idea.
 That's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
 Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, and socialism.
 They're socialists.
 The Republican party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream.
 Every day they're making good on the motto, "Promise made, promises kept.
" In fact, we are keeping even more promises by far than we made, or than we promised.
 So many more.
 So many more.
 So many more.
 You know what we did with respect to people that are very sick or terminally ill, right?
 Right to try it's called.
 I love that name.
 Right to try.
 We have some of the greatest doctors in the world, labs in the world, hospitals in the world, and we have incredible medicine that's prohibited from being used until it gets approval, and sometimes that approval can take many years.
 And I said, "Wait a minute, if a person is sick… " And they've been trying to get this for 45 years.
 I said, "If a person is sick, and maybe terminally ill, why aren't we letting them try this new technology?
" And so many things are happening, and we did Right to Try.
 And it wasn't easy, but I was helped by Lindsey and a lot of great people.
 A lot of great people.
 All of them helped.
 Mark helped so much.
 All of them help.
 Rick.
 We have had a tremendous success.
 We had so many people wanting to help, but it was complicated believe it not because the country didn't want the liability.
 I said, "You know what you do?
 You draw up an agreement taking away liability.
" They said, "That's a good idea.
" The insurance companies and the drug companies were very unsure.
 This has been going on for many years.
 I got it done.
 The results have been unbelievable.
 Right to Try.
 Things that we've never even talked about we're getting done.
 Maybe one of the biggest things is within about a month, we'll have close to 180 federal judges, including the public division judges.
 Including two great new Supreme Court Justices.
 Justice Neil Gorsuch, and Justice Brett Cavanaugh, who they put through hell.
 We passed something that they've wanted to do for half a century.
 We passed VA Choice.
 So when your great and honored veterans are waiting in line for three weeks, four weeks, five days, 10 days, two months, they go to a private doctor, we pay for the bill, and they get themselves taken care of, instead of dying, which was happening.
 And we also passed VA Accountability on behalf of our great veterans.
 That means when they treat our veterans, and they wouldn't have done it in primetime I can tell you, but when they treat our sick and trouble veterans badly we can say, "You're fired.
 Get the heck out.
" It's called VA Accountability.
 That's another one we've been trying, and in all fairness the unions made it very tough.
 Civil service made it almost impossible.
 Everyone said, "You're never going to get it done.
" We got it done.
 We want to thank the Republican Senate.
 I want to thank some incredible people in the House of Representatives, and Kevin I want to thank you… … people in the House of Representatives.
 And Kevin, I want to thank you because that was a great job you did on that one.
 That was a great job, thank you, Kevin McCarthy.
 We've received record funding for the US military, 700 billion last year, 716 billion dollars this year, 738 billion dollars … And you know, know I'm a big believer in budgets but we have no choice.
 We had to rebuild our military with all that's going on today with China, with Russia, with radical Islam, with everything that's happening, we had to do something.
 And you know, budgets are fine, I love budgets and we will get to that, don't worry about it.
 But we had to rebuild, our military was totally depleted, it was totally depleted.
 We have beautiful new F-35's, F-18's, new ships, new missiles, new rockets, we have new everything.
 I came back with Admiral Brown, the United States Coast Guard and some of the other folks, and they were saying that the new Coast Guard cutters … How good a job has the Coast Guard done during these hurricanes?
 And I said, "Admiral, how good are the new Coast Guard cutters?
" He said, "They're the finest in the world, sir.
" And they had old broken equipment that they had to keep going on a shoestring.
 They have brand new Coast Guard cutters.
 We had to do it, we had to do it.
 There's always time for the other but we had to do it.
 We've rebuilt our military, we've taken care of the great people that work in our military.
 We gave them a raise, a beautiful raise they were so entitled to.
 And I also got other NATO members to pay an additional 100 billion dollars over the last year and a half that they weren't paying, they were delinquent.
 We're supposed to protect them and they don't pay, I say you can't do that.
 You can't do that, you got to pay, NATO.
 Now we're finally making immensely wealthy countries pay the cost of their defense, we're negotiating with a lot of them.
 Think of it, we have these immensely wealthy countries and they're paying for a fraction of our cost to defend them.
 How did that happen?
 And do you know what the biggest excuse is when I go to them and I'll say, "King, you got to pay," or, "Mr.
 Prime minister, you got to pay," or, "Mr.
 President, you've got to pay," you know?
 It's costing us billions of dollars to protect these wealthy.
 You know what their biggest thing is?
 Because I can't understand how we did this for so many years, decades, decades … "You have been defending all of …" I won't mention names because I don't want to embarrass anybody.
 I don't want to, forget it, some of the wealthiest countries in the world.
 And when I say, "King, President, Prime Minister, Queen," no matter what I say, you know what they say?
 "But nobody's ever asked us to do that before," that's the only excuse.
 Because I say to them, "Why would we do this?
 Why are we defending you?
 You're immensely wealthy, you compete with us on trade.
" We have lousy trade deals that we are renegotiating many of them and ultimately all of them.
 "Why are we protecting you, Mr.
 President?
" "Well, I don't know, I don't know.
" But you know what their answer is?
 "Because you've always done it.
" That's not a great answer.
 So we're taking in billions and billions but I've got 100 billion dollars and the Secretary General of NATO, Stoltenberg, is my biggest fan.
 He said, "Until President Trump, you had to see the data across the spending was going like this.
" And ours was going like this, we were defending many countries that treat us very badly on trade and very unfairly.
 We were defending them and now it's changing, around 100 billion dollars, they're not happy.
 And then I read where Obama is more popular in Germany than Trump.
 He's got to be, I'm making people pay their bills, he's got to be.
 You know, the day that I'm more popular than him, I'm not doing my job.
 The big story, they like him more in Europe than they like Trump.
 I think they should.
 100 billion dollars more they're paying.
 To protect America's security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran Nuclear Deal.
 We paid them 150 billion dollars for that piece of work.
 I withdrew it and we put sanctions all over the place and they're a much different country and let's see what happens.
 But I can tell you they'd like to get back to business because they're not doing very well.
 When I came into office, Iran was a real terror.
 18 sites of confliction, they were behind every one of them in the Middle East.
 And who knows, could have been elsewhere.
 And I said we're not going to do it, 150 billion dollars President Obama paid and 1.
8 billion in cash.
 Whoever saw a million dollars piled up as a promotion?
 In hundred dollar bills, it's a lot.
 Now take a million dollars and make it 1.
8 billion dollars in cash.
 I'm actually more impressed with that number than 150 billion dollars, you want to know the truth.
 1.
8 billion dollars in cash and we got taken to the cleaners so I terminated the deal.
 And I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem which every president said they would do.
 And I also approved for Israel the Golan Heights and if you really think about it, I said to people, "What's more important, the Golan Heights or the capital of Jerusalem by moving our embassy there?
" He said, "Neither, sir.
 What you've done in Iran is more important than both of them.
" I said, "You know, I guess you're right when you think about it.
" So we've done a good job, all of us together, as a movement we've done a great job for Israel.
 For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America.
 Now you have a president who is standing up for america and we are standing up for the people of North Carolina.
 You must never forget that the 2020 election is about one thing thing, you.
 It's true, it's not about me, it's about you.
 It's about your family, your future and the fate of your country.
 That's what we did in 2016, they came from the hills and valleys, they came from the cities, they came from all over the place and people were saying, these fakers back there, they were saying, "What the hell is happening?
" But I knew it was going to happen because we go out and we see these rallies, the likes of which no one has ever seen before ever, ever, ever in politics, ever in politics.
 A vote for any Democrat in 2020 and a vote for any Democrat tomorrow in North Carolina is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and a destruction of the American dream.
 We are entering this campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda and the only positive vision for the people of North Carolina.
 And I've said it and I say it loudly and proudly, I don't believe there's been any president or any administration that has done more in 2.
5 years then we have as a group in America.
 When you add it all up, nobody's done what we have.
 Our first task is a giant victory.
 Tomorrow, right here in the great state of North Carolina with your support, tomorrow we take the first steps to firing Speaker Pelosi and winning back the House in 2020.
 We need everybody to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and get out and vote for Dan Bishop and get out and vote for Greg Murphy, you got to get out tomorrow and vote.
 Together we will lift millions more from our horrible, horrible situations that have developed over the years.
 Look at what's happening to Democrat-run cities, every single one of them.
 We are going to lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.
 With your help, we will elect for Republicans to Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration.
 We will enact great deals that result in more products probably stamped with the four beautiful words made in the USA, made in the USA.
 You want made in America, I don't care, what do you like better?
 Made in america or made in the USA?
 Go ahead.
 Wait, ready?
 You want made in America then made in the USA.
 What do you like better, made in America, made in the USA?
 Okay, I think we know that answer.
 So in 2016 we had in my opinion the greatest phrase in the history of politics, make America great again.
 Now we are within moments hopefully of having, despite what you heard a few weeks ago, where we were heading.
 And they're going, "Please, please let there be a recession, please.
" They're willing to give up their results because they think it will help them win the election.
 They're not going to win the election.
 Don't forget, we are doing this and still fighting the unfairness of China and other countries on trade.
 What happens when that gets fixed and other things get fixed?
 We're setting new records and we're fighting trade deals and we're fighting military deals that are unfair to our country.
 Think what happens when it all gets fixed, We have ourselves a country that's going to be so strong.
 But we had a phrase, make what?
 Make America great again, the best.
 I think it was maybe the greatest, 2016, but we've done a lot and now they're very close to setting a new … I think it's the 118th time that we will have set a new record with the stock market, right?
 Many, many times, many, many times.
 I can't be certain that many but it's a lot, okay?
 I always have to preface it because there'll be headlines, Trump didn't tell the truth.
 So I've always got to be extremely cautious.
 We had the greatest phrase of all time and even the fake news media would agree, make America great again, MAGA country, make America great again.
 Now we still have a year and a half, little bit less, can you believe it?
 Can you believe it?
 I stood in the White House with the first lady that first night and I said, "Wow, look at this.
 That's the bedroom of Abraham Lincoln," you have to see this.
 It's so perfectly done, it's so the way it was.
 We announced it in front of the press and in 2026.
 And I said, "Well, wait a minute, under the normal rules I will be out in 2024 so we may have to go for an extra term.
" Oh, they're going crazy.
 Tomorrow, you will see headlines, Trump wants an extra term, I told you, I told you.
 He wants an extra term, ladies and gentlemen.
 We told you, we told you he's a dictator, we told you.
 No, no, I'm only kidding, I'm only kidding.
 But we actually have the World Cup, it's the biggest sporting event in the world and we got it.
 And that's where we're working it also with Mexico and Canada to give them some of the games.
 We've got a great relationship with the World Cup, it's a big deal.
 Bob Kraft helped me with the New England Patriots people.
 Tom Brady had a pretty good game the other night, right?
 They have a good a coach, whether you like it or not, and I know you, North Carolina.
 But how good a coach, in all fairness here, is Coach Belichick?
 How good is he?
 I know you want to be cool but he's pretty good.
 We have to appreciate genius, we all like genius.
 But we are going to achieve new breakthroughs in science, medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending within 10 years the AIDS epidemic in America.
 That's shocking to hear that but we can do it, we're going to do it, definitely.
 Incredible, the strides that we have made.
 We will defeat the Democrats to drive up the cost of houses, cars, healthcare and education by liberating Americans from their analysts' push for a job killing, soul crushing Washington regulations.
 As an example, we're trying to get the car companies, going to give them a little bit of extra energy and they will be able to build a car that consumers can buy which will be better than the car they make today.
 And you'll save 3,500 dollars, think of that.
 It will be safer, it will be better, you can save 3,500 dollars, it will be less costly.
 And we're going to try to get that done.
 And then they were forcing you to buy light bulbs that cost a fortune, so I signed something a couple days ago that gives you the right to continue to use the incandescent light bulbs, I don't know about you, much less expensive lights that are beaming down over us.
 But you know, somebody told me that as you know, they're much more expensive bulbs than for what you save.
 But they said that if the bulb break, it's considered almost like the waste site.
 It's very big, the bulbs, the new bulbs, they're very dangerous with all of the gases.
 And I said, "What's the point?
" Well, then he said, "Well, I'm saying if we continue that production, they can buy whatever they want to buy but it can really save a tremendous amount of money and even have a light that's better.
" And there is a big danger, in fact they have labels, don't break this bulb.
 What do you do, you're going to throw it away?
 I promise I won't break it, all the new ones.
 So you can hopefully buy the new ones but you can buy the old ones too and you can save a lot of money and you could even look better.
 We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms.
 Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America, we'll be one united nation.
 We'll support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.
 We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement, thank you, law enforcement.
 We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.
 We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way like you.
 We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and to always respect our great American flag.
 And we will live by the words of our national motto, in God we trust, it'll stay there.
 We stand on the shoulders of American patriots who crossed the ocean, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two world wars wars, defeated fascism and communism, put a man on the moon and built the most exceptional country in the history of the world.
 We are great Americans and the future belongs to us.
 The future belongs to you.
 With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and I'd like to fight a little less with these people but they just don't stop.
 They just keep coming at you in waves.
 They are unfortunately not the best people.
 And we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, we're going to keep on winning.
 We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God.
 America is thriving like never before, we may have right now the greatest economy in the history of our nation.
 And ladies and gentlemen of North Carolina, the best is yet to come.
 Together we will make America wealthy again.
 We will make America strong again, we will.
 We will make America safe again.
 And we will make America great again.
 Thank you, everybody.
 Thank you, North Carolina.
 Thank you.

